Adoptively transferred antigen-specific T cells that recognize tumor antigens through their native receptors have many potential benefits as treatment for virus-associated diseases and malignancies, due to their ability to selectively recognize tumor antigens, expand and persist to provide long-term protection. Infusions of T cells targeting Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) antigens have shown encouraging response rates in patients with post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease as well as EBV-positive lymphomas and nasopharyngeal cancer, although a recent study also showed that human papilloma virus-reactive T cells can induce complete regression of metastatic cervical cancer. This strategy is also being evaluated to target non-viral tumor-associated antigens. Targeting these less immunogenic antigens is more challenging, as tumor antigens are generally weak, and high avidity T cells specific for self-antigens are deleted in the thymus, but tumor responses have been reported. Current research focusses on defining factors that promote in vivo persistence of transferred cells and ameliorate the immunosuppressive microenvironment. To this end, investigators are evaluating the effects of combining adoptive transfer of antigen-specific T cells with other immunotherapy moieties such as checkpoint inhibitors. Genetic modification of infused T cells may also be used to overcome tumor evasion mechanisms, and vaccines may be used to promote in vivo proliferation.

Multidrug resistance (MDR) is one of the major problems responsible for inefficiency of cancer chemotherapy. Currently, there is still unmet demand for innovative strategies as well as effective and safe sensitizers to overcome MDR. In this study, we developed a nanosensitizer based on a pH-responsive nanoparticle (NP) derived from acetalated α-cyclodextrin (Ac-aCD). This pH-responsive NP could be effectively endocytosed by MDR cancer cells, and intracellularly transported by endolysosomal compartments. Ac-aCD NP was able to dramatically potentiate the activity of anticancer drugs including paclitaxel, docetaxel, cis-diamminedichloroplatinum, camptothecin, and doxorubicin. This sensitizing capability of Ac-aCD NP on MDR cells was resulted from the combined effects of decreased Pgp expression, attenuated Pgp ATPase activity, and the reduced intracellular ATP level. Ac-aCD NP exerted these diverse biological functions by intracellularly released α-cyclodextrin molecules, which were produced due to hydrolysis of Ac-aCD in acidic subcellular organelle. On the other hand, treatment with Ac-aCD NP showed no significant effects on the integrity of the plasma membrane, cytoskeleton, cell cycle, mitochondrial membrane potential, and apoptosis. These findings suggest that this pH-responsive NP has great potential for effective therapy of resistant cancers by combining with chemotherapeutic agents. It may also serve as a pharmacologically active nanocarrier for intracellular delivery of a plethora of antitumor drugs.

The significance of peritoneal lavage cytology as a prognostic marker has been examined in various types of cancer. However, the meaning of positive peritoneal lavage cytology in colorectal cancer is still controversial. The aim of this review is to evaluate the prognostic significance of positive peritoneal lavage cytology in colorectal cancer.

An English literature search was performed on all studies published between 1998 and 2014 that compared the detection of peritoneal free cancer cells with survival or recurrence.

Eighteen articles met the inclusion criteria. All studies employed one (or more) of the three techniques used to detect free cancer cells in the peritoneal cavity: (1) conventional cytology, (2) immunocytochemistry or (3) polymerase chain reaction. The incidence of positive peritoneal lavage cytology ranged from 2.2 to 47.2% across the studies. The factors correlated with positive peritoneal lavage cytology were tumor penetration and metastases (lymph node, liver and peritoneum). In nine studies, positive lavage findings were associated with a worse survival, and it was associated with increased recurrence in 13 studies.

Positive peritoneal lavage cytology seems to be an indicator of a poor prognosis in colorectal cancer patients. Further studies are needed to clarify the prognostic impact of peritoneal lavage cytology, by comparing the different methods used for the collection of the peritoneal lavage.

The prognostic role of perineural invasion (PNI) in gastric cancer remains unclear. We hypothesized that the diameter of the tumor-involved nerves might be a useful indicator for prognosis. By labeling nerves and cancer cells in 204 cases of gastric cancer with single or double immunochemistry, we found that 146 cases were PNI positive and that 58 were PNI negative. For each case with PNI, the maximum diameter of the involved nerve was measured microscopically. Then, we correlated this parameter with the patients' 5-year overall survival, and receiver operating curves were used to determine the cutoff value. We found that the optimal cutoff value for predicting 5-year survival was 65 µm (sensitivity 76.9%, specificity 70.0%). Next, all 204 patients were classified into two groups as follows: Group A, PNI-positive cases in which the largest involved nerves were ≥65 µm in diameter (110 cases); Group B, PNI-positive cases in which the largest involved nerves were P˂65 µm and all PNI-negative cases (94 cases). Compared with Group A, Group B had a better 5-year survival (74.5% vs 27.3%) and a better 5-year disease-free survival (63.8% vs 23.6%). Multivariate analysis suggested that a ≥65 µm maximum diameter of the involved nerves was an independent risk factor for both recurrence (P˂0.001) and gastric cancer-related death (P˂0.001) within 5 years. However, if all patients were classified simply based on whether PNI existed (regardless of the nerve size), this did not provide more information than traditional clinicopathological variables. In conclusion, the presence of cancer-involved nerves with a diameter ≥65 µm was a valuable prognostic factor for gastric cancer.

To compare breast cancer disease-free survival (DFS) outcomes of patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer without and with preoperative magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. MATERIALS AND METHODS This study was approved by an institutional review board, and informed consent was waived. From 2004 to 2009 (unilateral MR imaging from 2004 to 2006 vs bilateral MR imaging from 2007 to 2009), patients with breast cancer without preoperative MR imaging (no MR imaging group) were matched with those with preoperative MR imaging (MR imaging group) according to age, histologic grade, nuclear grade, tumor size, nodal status, stage, hormone receptor status, Ki-67 status, molecular subtype, and lymphovascular invasion. Survival analysis was performed by using Kaplan-Meier estimates. A marginal model was used to evaluate the effect of preoperative MR imaging on DFS.

A total of 371 patient pairs from the unilateral imaging period and 97 patient pairs from the bilateral imaging period were matched. During the unilateral imaging period, the MR imaging group had better local-regional recurrence DFS (hazard ratio [HR], 0.33; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.12, 0.91; P = .032) than did the no MR imaging group; however, no difference was found for contralateral breast (P = .440) or distant recurrence (P = .515) DFS. During the bilateral imaging period, the MR imaging group had better contralateral breast cancer DFS (HR, 0.03; 95% CI: 0.04, 0.21; P < .001) than the no MR imaging group; however, no difference was found for local-regional (P = .180) or distant recurrence (P = .178) DFS.

Preoperative bilateral breast MR imaging for staging of breast cancer was associated with a reduced risk of contralateral breast recurrence; however, no observed reduction in risk of local-regional or distant recurrence was shown.

Our study aimed to evaluate the association between IL-1α (4845 G/T), IL-1β (-511C/T) and IL-1RN (VNTR) polymorphisms and risk of cervical cancer. This case-control study investigates three polymorphisms in 130 patients and 260 controls by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). The IL-1RN (VNTR) A1/A3 genotype appear as a cervical cancer risk factor (p = 0.048; OR = 2.92; 95 % CI = 1.00-8.74), moreover, the L/2* decreased the risk (p = 0.011; OR = 0.47; 95 % CI = 0.25-0.88) and may be a protective factor against this pathology. Stratified analysis according to the FIGO stage subgroup revealed that the IL-1β-511 T/T genotype and T allele may be a protective factors against cervical cancer development for patients with early stage (p = 0.030; OR = 0.46; 95 % CI = 0.22-0.96) (p = 0.020; OR = 0.68; 95 % CI = 0.48-0.97). However, for the patients with advanced FIGO stage, IL-1RN-VNTR L/2* genotype appear as a protective factor for this pathology (p = 0.023; OR = 0.29; 95 % CI = 0.08-0.99). The (G-T-L) haplotype showed a significant decreased frequency in cervical cancer patients as compared to controls (p = 0.032; OR = 0.53; 95 % CI = 0.29-0.95). In contrast, the (T-T-2*) combination appear a risk factor for the development of cervical cancer (p = 0.018; OR = 1.57; 95 % CI = 1.07-2.30). Our study suggested that IL1 cluster polymorphisms and haplotypes may be a genetic risk factor for cervical cancer.

Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) is reported to be implicated in the growth of some cancer cells. Matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) is thought to enhance the tumor invasion and metastasis ability. This study was aimed at analyzing the relationship between KGF and MMP-9 expression and patients' clinicopathological characteristics to clarify the clinical significance of the expression of KGF and MMP-9 in gastric cancer.

Tissue samples from 161 patients with primary gastric cancer were investigated using immunohistochemistry. The relationship between KGF and/or MMP-9 expression and clinicopathological characteristics was analyzed.

KGF expression and MMP-9 expression in gastric cancer tissue were observed in 62 cases (38.5%) and 97 cases (60.2%), respectively. MMP-9 was significantly associated with depth of invasion, lymph node metastasis and TNM stage. The prognosis of MMP-9-positive patients was significantly poorer than that of MMP-9-negative patients (p = 0.009). KGF expression was positively correlated with MMP-9 expression in gastric cancer, and the prognosis of patients with both KGF- and MMP-9-positive tumors was significantly worse than that of patients with negative tumors for either factor (p = 0.045). Expression of MMP-9 was revealed to be an independent prognostic factor (p = 0.026).

Coexpression of KGF and MMP-9 in gastric cancer could be a useful prognostic factor, and MMP-9 might also serve as a novel target for both prognostic prediction and therapeutics.

Many authors have considered dental implants to be unrelated to increased risk of medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ). Nevertheless, more recently, more cases of peri-implant MRONJ (PI-MRONJ) have been described, thus becoming a challenging health problem. Also, metastatic cancer deposits are not infrequently found at peri-implant sites and this may represent an additional complication for such treatments. We present the case of a breast cancer patient with PI-MRONJ, presenting a clinically and radiologically undetected metastasis within the necrotic bone, and highlight the necessity of an accurate histopathological analysis.

A 66-year-old female patient, who had received intravenous bisphosphonates for bone breast cancer metastases, came to our attention for a non-implant surgery-triggered PI-MRONJ. After surgical resection of the necrotic bone, conventional and immunohistochemical examinations were performed, which showed breast cancer deposits within the necrotic bone.

Cancer patients with metastatic disease, who are undergoing bisphosphonate treatment, may develop unusual complications, including MRONJ, which is a site at risk for hosting additional metastatic deposits that may be clinically and radiologically overlooked. Such risk is increased by previous or concomitant implant procedures. Consequently, clinicians should be prudent when performing implant surgery in cancer patients with advanced-stage disease and consider the possible occurrence of peri-implant metastases while planning adequate treatments in such patients.

Long non coding RNA (LncRNA) urothelial carcinoma-associated 1 (UCA1) is an oncogene in breast cancer. However, the detailed mechanism has not been fully revealed. This study explored whether UCA1 can directly interact with miR-143, a tumor suppressor in breast cancer and whether the UCA1-miR-143 axis is involved in regulation of cancer cell growth and apoptosis.

miRNA microarray was performed to identify the most dysregulated miRNAs between tumor and adjacent normal tissues of breast cancer. QRT-PCR analysis was performed to assess the expression of UCA1 and miR-143. The binding between UCA1 and miR-143 was verified using dual luciferase and RNA binding protein immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay. MTT assay and flow cytometry analysis were performed to study the role of UCA1-miR-143 axis in cell proliferation, cell cycle and apoptosis.

UC1 was significantly upregulated, while miR-143 was significantly downregulated in the tumor tissues than in the adjacent normal tissues. There are direct interactions between miR-143 and the miRNA recognition sites of UCA1. UCA1 is present in Ago2-containing RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), through association with miR-143. Through downregulating miR-143, UCA1 can modulate breast cancer cell growth and apoptosis.

UCA1 can directly interact with miR-143, lower its expression and affect its downstream regulation. Therefore, the UCA1-miR-143 axis constitutes a part of the oncogenic role of UCA1 in breast cancer.

Platelets are the smallest circulating blood cells and their major function is the maintenance of haemostasis. They do not have a nucleus, but instead a multitude of granules that contain molecules important for several physiological processes. These granules can be released after platelet activation and thereby platelets take part in haemostasis, wound repair or immunological processes. Furthermore, platelets are also involved in the pathophysiology of several diseases, including cancer. Platelets can support various steps of cancer development and progression by promoting tumour growth, angiogenesis and metastasis. Moreover, platelets contribute to the hypercoagulable state frequently observed in cancer patients, leading to an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE). In previous studies a high platelet count was repeatedly found to be associated with an elevated risk of VTE and a worse prognosis in patients with cancer. The aim of this review is to give an overview of the most important alterations of platelet physiology in cancer patients and how these alterations may influence cancer disease and contribute to cancer-associated VTE.

A series of studies have explored the role of cytosolic serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT1) C1420T polymorphism in cancer risk, but their results were conflicting rather than conclusive. To derive a more precise estimation of the association between C1420T and cancer risk, the present meta-analysis of 28 available studies with 15,121 cases and 18,023 controls was conducted. The results revealed that there was no significant association between the polymorphism and cancer risk overall. In stratified analysis by cancer type (breast cancer, gastrointestinal cancer, leukemia, lymphoma, and others), the results showed that 1420T allele was associated with decreased risk in leukemia (CT vs. CC: OR= 0.825, 95% CI =0.704-0.966; and CT+TT vs. CC: OR= 0.838, 95% CI = 0.722-0.973), but the same results were not present for other cancer types. When subgroup analysis was performed by source of control (population-based [PB] and hospital-based [HB]), a borderline inverse association was observed for the HB subgroup (CT vs. CC: OR= 0.917, 95% CI = 0.857-0.982) but not for the PB subgroup. Stratifying by geographic area (America, Asia and Europe), significant inverse association was only found in Asia subgroup (CT vs. CC: OR= 0.674, 95% CI = 0.522-0.870). In summary, the findings suggest that SHMT1 C1420T polymorphism is not associated with overall cancer development, but might decrease cancer susceptibility of Asians as well as reduce leukemia risk. Large well-designed epidemiological studies will be necessary to validate the risk identified in the current meta-analysis.

This study compared risk factors for depression and suicidal ideas among cancer patients for comparison with the general population, and identified influencing factors.

We analyzed data from 2,472 cancer patients in the National Cancer Center and nine Regional Cancer Centers and frequency-matched data for age and sex from 2,349 members of the general population who completed the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey in 2008. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify factors affecting depression and suicidal ideas.

Cancer patients were not likely to have more depression (OR=0.96, 95%CI=0.79-1.18) and were less likely to have suicidal ideas (OR=0.64, 95%CI=0.53-0.79) compared to the general population. Female sex, more stress, and lower quality of life were influencing factors. The additional risk factors for suicidal ideas among cancer patients included income (OR=0.62, 95%CI=0.43-0.91), smoking (OR=1.63, 95% CI=1.06-2.50), recurrence (OR=1.50, 95%CI=1.15-1.95), and chemotherapy (OR=1.66, 95%CI=1.26-2.19).

No differences appeared in depression rates between cancer patients and the general population, and cancer patients were less likely to have suicidal ideas. However, cancer patients were likely to have more risk factors than the general population, and those classified as being at high risk of suicide should receive distress management and social economic support, from early in the treatment process.

The Zhejiang Provincial Cancer Prevention and Control Office collected cancer registration data during 2000 to 2009 from 6 cancer registries in Zhejiang province of China in order to analyze the cancer incidence.

Descriptive analysis included cancer incidence stratified by sex, age and cancer site group. The proportions and cumulative rates of 10 common cancers in different groups were also calculated. Chinese population census in 1982 and Segi's population were used for calculating age-standardized incidence rates. The log-linear model was used for fitting to calculate the incidence trends.

The 6 cancer registries in Zhejiang province in China covered a total of 60,087,888 person-years during 2000 to 2009 (males 30,445,904, females 29,641,984). The total number of new cancer cases were 163,104 (males 92,982, females 70,122). The morphology verified cases accounted for 69.7%, and the new cases verified only by information from death certification accounted for 1.23%. The crude incidence rate in Zhejiang cancer registration areas was 271.5/105 during 2000 to 2009 (male 305.41/105, female 236.58/105), age-standardized incidence rates by Chinese standard population (ASIRC) and by world standard population (ASIRW) were 147.1/105 and 188.2/105, the cumulative incidence rate (aged from 0 to 74) being 21.7%. The crude incidence rate was 209.6/105 in 2000, and it increased to 320.20/105 in 2009 (52.8%), with an annual percent change (APC) of 4.51% (95% confidence interval, 3.25%-5.79%). Age-specific incidence rate of 80-84 age group was achieved at the highest point of the incidence curve. Overall with different age groups, the cancer incidences differed, the incidence of liver cancer being highest in 15-44 age group in males; the incidence of breast cancer was the highest in 15-64 age group in females; the incidences of lung cancer were the highest in both males and females over the age of 65 years.

Lung cancer, digestive system malignancies and breast cancer are the most common cancers in Zhejiang province in China requiring an especial focus. The incidences of thyroid cancer, prostate cancer, cervical cancer and lymphoma have increased rapidly. Prevention and control measures should be implemented for these cancers.

RESULTS from previous studies concerning the association of ERCC4 rs1800067 polymorphism with risk of cancer were inconsistent. To explore the exact relation with susceptibility, we conducted the present meta-analysis.

Literature of electronic databases including PubMed, Web of Science, EMBASE, Wanfang and Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) were systematically searched. ORs and their 95%CIs were used to assess the strength of associations between ERCC4 polymorphism and cancer risk.

There was no significant association between ERCC4 rs1800067 AA or AG genotypes and overall risk of cancer (AA vs. GG: OR=0.998, 95%CI=0.670-1.486, P=0.992; AG vs. GG: OR=0.970, 95%CI=0.888- 1.061, P=0.508). A dominant genetic model also did not demonstrate significant association of (AA+AG) genotype carriers with altered risk of overall cancer (OR=0.985, 95%CI=0.909-1.068, P=0.719). In addition, no significant association was observed between A allele of ERCC4 rs1800067 A/G polymorphism and altered cancer risk compared with G allele (OR=0.952, 95%CI=0.851-1.063, P=0.381). Subgroup analysis suggested that AA genotype carriers were significantly associated with decreased risk of glioma compared with wild-type GG genotype individuals (OR=0.523, 95%CI=0.275-0.993, P=0.048). For subgroup of lung cancer, A allele of ERCC4 rs1800067 A/G polymorphism was significantly associated with decreased risk of lung cancer compared with G allele (OR=0.806, 95%CI=0.697-0.931, P=0.003).

This meta-analysis indicated that ERCC4 rs1800067 A/G polymorphism might not be associated with risk of overall cancer. However, individuals with the AA genotype were associated with significantly reduced risk of glioma compared with wild-type GG genotype; The A allele was associated with significantly reduced risk of lung cancer compared with G allele. Future large- scale studies performed in multiple populations are warranted to confirm our results.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) defects have been postulated to play an important role in the modulation and/or progression of cancer. In the past decade, a wide spectrum of mtDNA variations have been suggested as potentially sensitive and specific biomarkers for several human cancer types. In this context, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) described as protective or risk variants have been published, in particular in breast cancer, though not without controversy. Moreover, many mtDNA haplogroups have been associated with different phenotypes and diseases. We genotyped 18 SNPs, 15 of them defining European mtDNA haplogroups, including SNPs described as protective or risk variants, 7 SNPs that determine BRCA1 haplotypes and a BRCA1 intron 7 polymorphism. We included in this study 90 Caucasian unrelated women with breast cancer with familial criteria and 96 controls. Our aim was to clarify the importance of any of these SNPs, mitochondrial haplogroups and BRCA1 haplotypes in the modulation of breast cancer. We detected no significant differences in the distribution of BRCA1 haplotypes between patients and controls. Haplogroup U and the 12308G variant of mtDNA were overrepresented within the control group (p = 0.005 and p = 0.036, respectively) compared to breast cancer. Finally, we identified a significant association between the BRCA1 intron 7 polymorphism and BRCA1 haplotypes. Specifically, (TTC)6/6 and (TTC)6/7 genotypes with the seven polymorphic site cassette of "H2-like" haplotypes, and the (TTC)7/7 genotype associated with the "H1-like" haplotypes (p < 0.001).

Currently, hereditary breast cancer is being attributed to more than 20 genes of differing penetrance. Although BRCA1 and BRCA2 are still the genes of reference for breast cancer susceptibility, extreme breast cancer phenotypes may be the result of deleterious alleles of other genes. Here, we report three families with early-onset breast cancer that were initially referred for BRCA1/BRCA2 genetic testing. They were diagnosed with breast cancer at an extraordinarily early age. On the basis of their extensive family history, which included multiple cancer types, and their Her2 status, they were suspected for Li-Fraumeni syndrome. Indeed, all three probands were found to harbor TP53 tumor suppressor gene mutations. These included p.C275X, described here for the first time, as well as p.R213X and p.Y220C, which have been described in the past. Our conclusion is that decisions on genetic analysis for inherited early onset breast cancer should always be based on detailed pedigree information, combined with Her2 status.

Plasma antioxidants are supposed to be directly related to breast cancer risk. However, the results remain inconsistent. Herein, we carried this meta-analysis to comprehensively summarize the associations between plasma retinol, vitamins A, C and α-tocopherol and breast cancer risk.

We searched PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Databases (through September 24, 2014) and the reference lists of the retrieved articles in English with sufficient information to estimate relative risk or odds ratio and the 95% confidence intervals (CIs), or with mean serum/plasma level of vitamins and SD/SEM/p value in breast cancer and controls. Two reviewers independently extracted data using a standardized form, with any discrepancy adjudicated by the third reviewer.

Forty studies entered this meta-analysis. For the pooled OR, no significant association between plasma retinol and breast cancer was observed (p = 0.13). Significant association was observed between plasma α-tocopherol and breast cancer (pooled OR 0.42, 95% CI 0.25, 0.72, p = 0.00) in the subgroup with the median lowest level of 5.74-9.16 μmol/L. For the weighted mean difference (WMD), the plasma α-tocopherol and vitamin C level between breast cancer and controls were significantly different [WMD = -0.93 μmol/L (95% CI -1.26, -0.61, p = 0.00) and -2.51 μmol/L (95% CI -4.00, -1.02, p = 0.00), respectively]. No significant association between plasma retinol and vitamin A and breast cancer was observed.

Severe α-tocopherol deficiency could increase breast cancer risk. The association between plasma vitamin C and breast cancer was only significant in case-control studies. There was no significant association between other vitamins and breast cancer risk.

Glycosylation has significant effects on protein function and cell metastasis, which are important in cancer progression. It is of great interest to identify site-specific glycosylation in search of potential cancer biomarkers. However, the abundance of glycopeptides is low compared to that of nonglycopeptides after trypsin digestion of serum samples, and the mass spectrometric signals of glycopeptides are often masked by coeluting nonglycopeptides due to low ionization efficiency. Selective enrichment of glycopeptides from complex serum samples is essential for mass spectrometry (MS)-based analysis. Herein, a strategy has been optimized using LCA enrichment to improve the identification of core-fucosylation (CF) sites in serum of pancreatic cancer patients. The optimized strategy was then applied to analyze CF glycopeptide sites in 13 sets of serum samples from pancreatic cancer, chronic pancreatitis, healthy controls, and a standard reference. In total, 630 core-fucosylation sites were identified from 322 CF proteins in pancreatic cancer patient serum using an Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. Further data analysis revealed that 8 CF peptides exhibited a significant difference between pancreatic cancer and other controls, which may be potential diagnostic biomarkers for pancreatic cancer.

It remains unknown whether incident chronic diseases are more often fatal among breast cancer survivors than among women free of breast cancer.

We conducted a nationwide matched cohort study of all Danish breast cancer patients diagnosed between 1994 and 2007, who survived for five years. We compared their long-term mortality with five times as many women from the general population without breast cancer, matched on age. We used time-varying methods to compute mortality rate ratios (MRRs) for incident diseases included in the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI).

One third of five-year breast cancer survivors developed incident diseases during 14 years of follow-up, with about the same incidence as women without breast cancer. Mortality associated with any incident disease was similar among breast cancer survivors (MRR = 7.1, 95% confidence interval (CI): 6.7, 7.4) and comparison women (MRR = 7.5, 95% CI: 7.3, 7.7). Among breast cancer patients, relative mortality associated with incident diseases was higher among patients treated with chemotherapy (MRR = 10, 95% CI: 8.7, 12) and radiotherapy (MRR = 9.8, 95% CI: 8.8, 11) than among patients who received surgery (MRR = 7.0, 95% CI: 6.7, 7.4) or hormonal therapy (MRR = 6.3, 95% CI: 5.8, 6.9).

There were no marked differences in mortality of diseases among breast cancer survivors and women from the general population. Among breast cancer patients, new diseases were more often fatal in patients treated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Five-year breast cancer survivors have similar risk of dying from new chronic medical conditions as women from the general population without breast cancer.

Treatment failure is a critical issue in breast cancer and identifying useful interventions that optimize current cancer therapies remains a critical unmet need. Expression and functional studies have identified connexins (Cxs), a family of gap junction proteins, as potential tumor suppressors. Studies suggest that Cx43 has a role in breast cancer cell proliferation, differentiation, and migration. Although pan-gap junction drugs are available, the lack of specificity of these agents increases the opportunity for off target effects. Consequently, a therapeutic agent that specifically modulates Cx43 would be beneficial and has not been tested in breast cancer. In this study, we now test an agent that specifically targets Cx43, called ACT1, in breast cancer.

We evaluated whether direct modulation of Cx43 using a Cx43-directed therapeutic peptide, called ACT1, enhances Cx43 gap junctional activity in breast cancer cells, impairs breast cancer cell proliferation or survival, and enhances the activity of the targeted inhibitors tamoxifen and lapatinib.

Our results show that therapeutic modulation of Cx43 by ACT1 maintains Cx43 at gap junction sites between cell-cell membrane borders of breast cancer cells and augments gap junction activity in functional assays. The increase in Cx43 gap junctional activity achieved by ACT1 treatment impairs proliferation or survival of breast cancer cells but ACT1 has no effect on non-transformed MCF10A cells. Furthermore, treating ER+ breast cancer cells with a combination of ACT1 and tamoxifen or HER2+ breast cancer cells with ACT1 and lapatinib augments the activity of these targeted inhibitors.

Based on our findings, we conclude that modulation of Cx43 activity in breast cancer can be effectively achieved with the agent ACT1 to sustain Cx43-mediated gap junctional activity resulting in impaired malignant progression and enhanced activity of lapatinib and tamoxifen, implicating ACT1 as part of a combination regimen in breast cancer.

The initial impact of treatments for men with prostate cancer is well reported in the literature. Less is known about the psychosocial needs of these men as their journey after diagnosis and treatment continues into the months and years.

The objective of this study was to examine and understand the supportive care needs of men diagnosed and treated for prostate cancer at key identifiable periods of their cancer journey.

An international Web-based survey was conducted in 2012, investigating men's prostate cancer pathways. The survey was based on substantial qualitative research and assessed for validity and reliability before piloting. To provide a unique insight into men living with prostate cancer, the views of partners were also elicited.

Completed questionnaires were obtained from 193 men and 40 partners from 6 nations. The physical and psychosocial impact of treatment and need for support varied along the cancer journey. Fear, distress, loss, regret, anxiety, low self-esteem, depression, changes in sexuality, masculinity, and relationships were also described by both men and partners as adverse effects of the diagnosis and treatment for prostate cancer.

Wives and partners are a key psychosocial support to men with prostate cancer. They may also provide valuable insight into men's supportive care needs that men are often unable to recognize themselves.

Findings suggest that wives and partners of men with prostate cancer can provide nurses and healthcare authorities with a powerful and unique resource in providing supportive care for men who are challenged by prostate cancer.

Women with breast cancer are at increased risk of depression, and the extent to which valued activities are disrupted by one's illness has been correlated with depressive symptoms in women with early stage breast cancer. This association has not been examined in women with Stage IV (metastatic) cancer, and the temporal directionality of this relationship remains unclear. The goal of the current study was to examine longitudinal, reciprocal relationships between illness-related disruption of social and recreational activities and self-reported symptoms of depression in a sample of women living with Stage IV breast cancer.

Participants were 103 women diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer. Women completed measures of depressive symptoms and activity disruption at study entry (T1) and at 3-month follow-up (T2).

Activity disruption at study entry did not significantly predict changes in total depressive symptoms or in negative affective or somatic symptoms but did predict reductions in positive affect. Total depressive symptoms at study entry predicted increases in activity disruption, as did negative affective symptoms.

Depressive symptoms, specifically negative affective symptoms such as sadness, may exacerbate social and recreational activity disruption in women with metastatic breast cancer. Cancer-related activity disruption may, in turn, result in reductions in positive affect. These results highlight the importance of examining specific constellations of depressive symptoms and suggest that maintaining valued activities may help to preserve enjoyment of life for patients with Stage IV cancer.

Previous experimental studies have shown an antagonistic interaction between cadmium and selenium. We explored the interaction between cadmium and selenium on human breast cancer risk.

A case-control study, enrolled 240 incident invasive breast cancer patients and 246 age-matched controls from 2 hospitals, was conducted in Guangzhou, China. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry was used to examine urinary concentrations of cadmium and selenium. Association and interaction of the metal levels with breast cancer risk were tested using generalized additive and logistic regression models.

As continuous variables, urinary cadmium [OR (95% CI): 1.16 (1.01-1.34)] but not selenium was significantly linearly associated with breast cancer risk. As tertiles, urinary cadmium did not significantly increase breast cancer risk; whereas women with the second tertile of selenium concentration had a significantly decreased risk of breast cancer as compared with those in the lowest tertile [OR (95% CI): 0.50 (0.30-0.81)]. Among the women with the lowest tertile of selenium, the highest tertile of cadmium significantly increased the risk of breast cancer [OR (95% CI): 2.83 (1.18-6.86)] compared to the lowest tertile of cadmium. A multiplicative interaction was found between tertiles of cadmium and selenium on breast cancer risk (P=0.018), particularly among postmenopausal women.

These results suggested that the association of urinary cadmium with breast cancer risk was modified by urinary selenium.

Recent study showed that inflammation was related to lung cancer. However, the exact cause of lung inflammation leading to carcinogenesis is unknown. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of endogenous non-coding small RNAs that regulate the activity of targeted mRNAs by inflammatory response in many diseases. MiR-451 was reported to relate to the development of lung cancer and metastasis of glioma. But the effect of miR-451 on cell proliferation, migration, and invasion of lung cancer is not really clear. In order to explore the molecular mechanism of the occurrence and development of lung cancer, we investigated the effect of human miR-451 on the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis in lung cancer cell line A549. The miR-451 expression construct was generated into pGenesil-1.1 and transfected into A549 cells. Results showed that the recombinant vectors were verified by sequencing. And miR-451 was over-expressed in A549 by real-time RT PCR. Furthermore, the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of the cells in miR-451 group were inhibited significantly compared with those in control and A549 groups by MTT assay, Transwell invasion assay, and wound-healing assay. And the lung cancer metastasis factors (MMP-2, MMP-9, VEGF, and CXCR4) were decreased in miR-451 group by Western blot. Moreover, it was proved that inflammation-related gene-PSMB8 was a target for miR-451 by bioinformatics analysis and dual-luciferase reporter assay. And the protein expressions of PSMB8 and NOS2 were decreased in miR-451 group compared with those in control and A549 groups. Therefore, our findings indicated that miR-451 related to PSMB8/NOS2 inflammatory factors may suppress the development and migration of lung cancer, providing evidence for the role of miR-451 in lung cancer.

Members of Rho family GTPases including Cdc42 are known to play pivotal roles in cell migration. Cell migration is also known to be regulated by many protein kinases. Kinetworks KPSS 11.0 phospho-site screening of Cdc42-silenced Hs578T breast cancer cells revealed most dramatic change in ERK5 MAP kinase. In the present study, we set out to determine the relationship between Cdc42 and ERK5 and its significance in breast cancer cell migration and invasion. Specific siRNAs were used for knocking down Cdc42 or ERK5 in breast cancer cells. Increased ERK5 phosphorylation in breast cancer cells was achieved by infection of constitutively active MEK5 adenovirus. The cells were then subjected to cell migration or invasion assay without the presence of serum or any growth factor. We found that Cdc42 negatively regulated phosphorylation of ERK5, which in turn exhibited an inverse relationship with migration and invasiveness of breast cancer cells. To find out some in vivo relevance of the results of our in vitro experiments we also examined the expression of ERK5 in the breast cancer tissues and their adjacent normal control tissues by real-time RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. ERK5 expression was found to be reduced in breast cancer tissues as compared with their adjacent uninvolved mammary tissues. Therefore, Cdc42 may promote breast cancer cell migration and invasion by inhibiting ERK5 phosphorylation and ERK5 expression may be inversely correlated with the progression of some breast tumors.

Cancer becomes the leading cause of deaths worldwide, including breast cancer, prostate cancer and lung cancer that preferentially metastasize to bone and bone marrow. Bisphosphonates (BPs) have been used successfully for many years to reduce the skeletal complications related with the benign and malignant bone diseases that are characterized by enhanced osteoclastic bone resorption. Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (N-BPs) have also been demonstrated to exhibit direct anti-tumour effects. BPs binds avidly to the bone matrix, and released from matrix during bone resorption process, BPs are internalized by the osteoclasts where they interfere with biochemical pathways and induce osteoclast apoptosis. BPs also antagonizes the production of osteoclast and promotes the osteoblasts proliferation. Currently, Zoledronic acid is widely used as one of the BP having high bone specificity and potential to inhibit the osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. In addition to inhibition of cell multiplication and initiation of apoptosis in cultured cancer cells, they also interfere with adhesion of cancer cells to the bone matrix and inhibit cell migration and invasion. Pathophysiology and current target therapies like conjugate of BPs with liposomes, nanoparticle used for the treatment of bone cancer is reviewed in this article along with the use of different BPs.

Cancer cells are surrounded by the extracellular fluid, matrix, and stroma cells. Little is known about how extracellular components such as growth factor ligands affect the biology of lung cancer cells. The objective of this study was to determine whether extracellular fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) can affect the biology of lung cancer cells and to understand how extracellular FGFs affect the biology of lung cancer cells, including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cells. Out of the 23 reported FGFs, we focused on FGF2, FGF9 and FGF10. We examined the effect of FGFs on proliferation, treatment sensitivity, and apoptosis of NSCLC (PC9) and SCLC (H69, H82 and H146) cells in vitro. To determine which FGF was the most clinically relevant, we also examined FGF2 and FGF9 concentrations in the serum of patients with lung cancer. We found that extracellular FGFs can affect proliferation, treatment sensitivity, and apoptosis of lung cancer cells in a cell-specific manner. Our results indicate that extracellular FGFs affect the biology of lung cancer cells through multiple functions.

Most breast cancer survivors (BCS) are not meeting recommended physical activity guidelines. Here, we report the effects of the Better Exercise Adherence after Treatment for Cancer (BEAT Cancer) behavior change intervention on physical activity, aerobic fitness, and quality of life (QoL). We randomized 222 post-primary treatment BCS to the 3-month intervention (BEAT Cancer) or usual care (UC). BEAT Cancer combined supervised exercise, face-to-face counseling, and group discussions with tapering to home-based exercise. Assessments at baseline, immediately post-intervention (month 3; M3), and 3 months post-intervention (month 6; M6) included accelerometer and self-reported physical activity, submaximal treadmill test, and QoL [Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Breast scale]. Adjusted linear mixed-model analyses demonstrated significant effects of BEAT Cancer compared to UC on weekly minutes of ≥ moderate intensity physical activity at M3 by accelerometer [mean between group difference (M) = +41; 95 % confidence interval (CI) = 10-73; p = 0.010] and self-report (M = +93; CI = 62-123; p < 0.001). Statistical significance remained at M6 for self-reported physical activity (M = +74; CI = 43-105; p < 0.001). BEAT Cancer participants were significantly more likely to meet physical activity recommendations at both time points [accelerometer M3 adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 2.2; CI = 1.0-4.8 and M6 adjusted OR = 2.4; CI = 1.1-5.3; self-report M3 adjusted OR = 5.2; CI = 2.6-10.4 and M6 adjusted OR = 4.8; CI = 2.3-10.0]. BEAT Cancer significantly improved fitness at M6 (M = +1.8 ml/kg/min; CI = 0.8-2.8; p = 0.001) and QoL at M3 and M6 (M = +6.4; CI = 3.1-9.7; p < 0.001 and M = +3.8; CI = 0.5-7.2; p = 0.025, respectively). The BEAT Cancer intervention significantly improved physical activity, fitness, and QoL with benefits continuing 3 months post-intervention.

Pancreatic cancer, often considered a metastatic disease at the time of clinical diagnosis due to lack of any reliable early diagnostic marker(s), is refractory to conventional chemo- and radiotherapy and has a dismal 5-year survival rate of only 6%. Although surgical removal of the primary tumor is considered to be curative, the 5-year survival rate is no more than 20% even in patients with clear resection margins (R0). The recurrence of local and metastatic disease (primarily liver metastasis) post resection is considered to be the leading cause of mortality in these patients. In addition, instances of metastatic disease without any local recurrence post resection have also been observed. Cancer metastasis is the primary cause of mortality in cancer patients and is classically viewed as a late event during the progression of the disease, which is supported by the genetic studies used to understand the evolution of pancreatic cancer. However, this view has recently been challenged by studies using mathematical modeling and genetically labeled mouse models of pancreatic cancer to understand the dynamics of tumor cell dissemination and epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) of tumor cells well before the primary tumor is formed. Given that EMT is a hallmark process that initiates the metastatic seeding of cancer cells and the dismal prognosis of pancreatic cancer patients even after efficient removal of the primary tumor (99.9%), an early dissemination hypothesis of cancer cells cannot be undermined. In this review, we will discuss the current views regarding pancreatic cancer metastasis with particular emphasis on the epithelial to mesenchymal transition, its influence on the selection of patients for surgical resection and the therapeutic intervention.

With enhanced public awareness, advances in breast imaging, and emphasis on early breast cancer detection and prevention, more women are seeking consultation to assess the status of their breast health. Risk assessment has become an integral part of established multi-disciplinary breast care, and breast cancer risk reduction interventions have received a great deal of attention. Similarly, interest in identification of high-risk individuals has increased significantly. Atypical proliferative changes in breast epithelial cells are ranked high among various known breast cancer risk factors and, in recent years, have been the subject of several investigations. Breast tissue and fluid in the ductal system provide a rich source of cells and biomarkers that have the potential to aid in the assessment of short-term risk of breast cancer development, and assess responses to interventional prevention efforts. There are three minimally invasive procedures currently being utilized to sample breast tissue in asymptomatic high-risk individuals. These procedures are: fine-needle aspiration biopsy, nipple aspiration fluid, and ductal lavage. In this review article, the merits and limitations of each procedure are presented, and the contribution of cytomorphology and molecular analysis in breast cancer prediction is highlighted. In addition, the role of Masood Cytology Index as a surrogate endpoint biomarker in chemopreventative trials is discussed.

Evidence on non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) use and breast cancer risk shows a slightly protective effect of these drugs, but previous studies lack randomized clinical trial results and present high heterogeneity in exposure measurement. This systematic review and meta-analysis widens the knowledge about NSAID use and breast cancer risk, updating the information from the last meta-analysis, focusing on evidence on specific effects of COX-2 inhibitors and differential expression patterns of hormonal receptors. A PubMed-database search was conducted to include all entries published with the keywords "BREAST CANCER NSAID ANTI-INFLAMMATORY" until 10/24/2013 providing original results from cohort studies, case-control studies, or randomized clinical trials with at least one reported relative risk (RR) or odds ratio (OR) on the association between any NSAID use and incidence of invasive breast cancer. This resulted in 49 publications, from which the information was retrieved about type of study, exposure characteristics, breast cancer characteristics, and breast cancer-NSAID association. Meta-analyses were performed separately for case-control and cohort studies and for different hormone-receptor status. NSAID use reduced invasive breast cancer risk by about 20 %. A similar effect was found for aspirin, acetaminophen, COX-2 inhibitors and, to a lesser extent, ibuprofen. The effect of aspirin was similar in preventing hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer. This meta-analysis suggests a slightly protective effect of NSAIDs-especially aspirin and COX-2 inhibitors- against breast cancer, which seems to be restricted to ER/PR+tumors.

The protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B), a non-transmembrane protein tyrosine phosphatase, has been implicated in gastric pathogenesis. Several lines of recent evidences have shown that PTP1B is highly amplified in breast and prostate cancers. The aim of this study was to investigate PTP1B amplification in gastric cancer and its association with poor prognosis of gastric cancer patients, and further determine the role of PTP1B in gastric tumorigenesis. Our data demonstrated that PTP1B was significantly up-regulated in gastric cancer tissues as compared with matched normal gastric tissues by using quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) assay. In addition, copy number analysis showed that PTP1B was amplified in 68/131 (51.9%) gastric cancer cases, whereas no amplification was found in the control subjects. Notably, PTP1B amplification was positively associated with its protein expression, and was significantly related to poor survival of gastric cancer patients. Knocking down PTP1B expression in gastric cancer cells significantly inhibited cell proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion, and induced cell cycle arrested and apoptosis. Mechanically, PTP1B promotes gastric cancer cell proliferation, survival and invasiveness through modulating Src-related signaling pathways, such as Src/Ras/MAPK and Src/phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathways. Collectively, our data demonstrated frequent overexpression and amplification PTP1B in gastric cancer, and further determined the oncogenic role of PTP1B in gastric carcinogenesis. Importantly, PTP1B amplification predicts poor survival of gastric cancer patients.

Ubiquitination is a highly dynamic and reversible process with a central role in cell homeostasis. Deregulation of several deubiquitinating enzymes has been linked to tumor development but their specific role in prostate cancer progression remains unexplored.

RNAi screening was used to investigate the role of the ovarian tumor proteases (OTU) family of deubiquitinating enzymes on the proliferation and invasion capacity of prostate cancer cells. RhoA activity was measured in relation with OTUB1 effects on prostate cancer cell invasion. Tumor xenograft mouse model with stable OTUB1 knockdown was used to investigate OTUB1 influence in tumor growth.

Our RNAi screening identified OTUB1 as an important regulator of prostate cancer cell invasion through the modulation of RhoA activation. The effect of OTUB1 on RhoA activation is important for androgen-induced repression of p53 expression in prostate cancer cells. In localized prostate cancer tumors OTUB1 was found overexpressed as compared to normal prostatic epithelial cells. Prostate cancer xenografts expressing reduced levels of OTUB1 exhibit reduced tumor growth and reduced metastatic dissemination in vivo.

OTUB1 mediates prostate cancer cell invasion through RhoA activation and promotes tumorigenesis in vivo. Our results suggest that drugs targeting the catalytic activity of OTUB1 could potentially be used as therapeutics for metastatic prostate cancer.

Targeted magnetic resonance (MR)/ultrasound fusion prostate biopsy has been shown to detect prostate cancer. The implications of targeted biopsy alone vs standard extended-sextant biopsy or the 2 modalities combined are not well understood.

To assess targeted vs standard biopsy and the 2 approaches combined for the diagnosis of intermediate- to high-risk prostate cancer.

Prospective cohort study of 1003 men undergoing both targeted and standard biopsy concurrently from 2007 through 2014 at the National Cancer Institute in the United States. Patients were referred for elevated level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) or abnormal digital rectal examination results, often with prior negative biopsy results. Risk categorization was compared among targeted and standard biopsy and, when available, whole-gland pathology after prostatectomy as the "gold standard."

Patients underwent multiparametric prostate magnetic resonance imaging to identify regions of prostate cancer suspicion followed by targeted MR/ultrasound fusion biopsy and concurrent standard biopsy.

The primary objective was to compare targeted and standard biopsy approaches for detection of high-risk prostate cancer (Gleason score ≥ 4 + 3); secondary end points focused on detection of low-risk prostate cancer (Gleason score 3 + 3 or low-volume 3 + 4) and the biopsy ability to predict whole-gland pathology at prostatectomy.

Targeted MR/ultrasound fusion biopsy diagnosed 461 prostate cancer cases, and standard biopsy diagnosed 469 cases. There was exact agreement between targeted and standard biopsy in 690 men (69%) undergoing biopsy. Targeted biopsy diagnosed 30% more high-risk cancers vs standard biopsy (173 vs 122 cases, P < .001) and 17% fewer low-risk cancers (213 vs 258 cases, P < .001). When standard biopsy cores were combined with the targeted approach, an additional 103 cases (22%) of mostly low-risk prostate cancer were diagnosed (83% low risk, 12% intermediate risk, and 5% high risk). The predictive ability of targeted biopsy for differentiating low-risk from intermediate- and high-risk disease in 170 men with whole-gland pathology after prostatectomy was greater than that of standard biopsy or the 2 approaches combined (area under the curve, 0.73, 0.59, and 0.67, respectively; P < .05 for all comparisons).

Among men undergoing biopsy for suspected prostate cancer, targeted MR/ultrasound fusion biopsy, compared with standard extended-sextant ultrasound-guided biopsy, was associated with increased detection of high-risk prostate cancer and decreased detection of low-risk prostate cancer. Future studies will be needed to assess the ultimate clinical implications of targeted biopsy.

clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00102544.

Pancreatic cancer is the most aggressive cancer worldwide with poor response to current therapeutics. Alisertib (ALS), a potent and selective Aurora kinase A inhibitor, exhibits potent anticancer effects in preclinical and clinical studies; however, the effect and underlying mechanism of ALS in the pancreatic cancer treatment remain elusive. This study aimed to examine the effects of ALS on cell growth, autophagy, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and to delineate the possible molecular mechanisms in human pancreatic cancer PANC-1 and BxPC-3 cells. The results showed that ALS exerted potent cell growth inhibitory, pro-autophagic, and EMT-suppressing effects in PANC-1 and BxPC-3 cells. ALS remarkably arrested PANC-1 and BxPC-3 cells in G2/M phase via regulating the expression of cyclin-dependent kinases 1 and 2, cyclin B1, cyclin D1, p21 Waf1/Cip1, p27 Kip1, and p53. ALS concentration-dependently induced autophagy in PANC-1 and BxPC-3 cells, which may be attributed to the inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (Erk1/2) but activation of 5'-AMP-dependent kinase signaling pathways. ALS significantly inhibited EMT in PANC-1 and BxPC-3 cells with an increase in the expression of E-cadherin and a decrease in N-cadherin. In addition, ALS suppressed the expression of sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) and pre-B cell colony-enhancing factor/visfatin in both cell lines with a rise in the level of acetylated p53. These findings show that ALS induces cell cycle arrest and promotes autophagic cell death but inhibits EMT in pancreatic cancer cells with the involvement of PI3K/Akt/mTOR, p38 MAPK, Erk1/2, and Sirt1-mediated signaling pathways. Taken together, ALS may represent a promising anticancer drug for pancreatic cancer treatment. More studies are warranted to investigate other molecular targets and mechanisms and verify the efficacy and safety of ALS in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.

Heritability is one of the strongest risk factors of prostate cancer, emphasizing the importance of the genetic contribution towards prostate cancer risk. To date, 86 established prostate cancer risk variants have been identified by genome-wide association studies (GWAS). To determine if these risk variants are located near genes that interact together in biological networks or pathways contributing to prostate cancer initiation or progression, we generated gene sets based on proximity to the 86 prostate cancer risk variants. We took two approaches to generate gene lists. The first strategy included all immediate flanking genes, up- and downstream of the risk variant, regardless of distance from the index variant, and the second strategy included genes closest to the index GWAS marker and to variants in high LD (r2 ≥0.8 in Europeans) with the index variant, within a 100 kb window up- and downstream. Pathway mapping of the two gene sets supported the importance of the androgen receptor-mediated signaling in prostate cancer biology. In addition, the hedgehog and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways were identified in pathway mapping for the flanking gene set. We also used the HaploReg resource to examine the 86 risk loci and variants high LD (r2 ≥0.8) for functional elements. We found that there was a 12.8 fold (p = 2.9 x 10-4) enrichment for enhancer motifs in a stem cell line and a 4.4 fold (p = 1.1 x 10-3) enrichment of DNase hypersensitivity in a prostate adenocarcinoma cell line, indicating that the risk and correlated variants are enriched for transcriptional regulatory motifs. Our pathway-based functional annotation of the prostate cancer risk variants highlights the potential regulatory function that GWAS risk markers, and their highly correlated variants, exert on genes. Our study also shows that these genes may function cooperatively in key signaling pathways in prostate cancer biology.

More than one million new patients suffer from breast cancer annually in the world. In developed countries, breast cancer is the most common malignancy diagnosed among women, and in developing regions, it often ranks second to cervical cancer. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between incidence of breast cancer and reproductive factors in North-West of Iran. This retrospective analytical control-case study was conducted with 235 breast cancer patients and 235 women in the control group. Data collection tools included a set of questions with interviews and patient medical records. Data were analyzed using statistical tests: t-test, Chi-square, Fisher, and Pearson correlation coefficient. Significantly increased risks were associated between breast cancer and older age at first pregnancy, age at menopause and history of contraceptive use. A trend for decreasing risk were observed with increasing parity. Findings of this study showed no association between breast cancer and age at menarche. The study results suggested that physiological and reproductive factors may play important roles in the development breast cancer among Iranian women.

Changes in the status of DNA methylation are one of the most common molecular alterations in human neoplasia. We aimed to identify epigenetic molecular markers in serum for early detection of breast cancer. Authors analyzed retrospectively the methylation status of RARβ2 and APC genes in serum samples from 121 breast cancer patients, 79 patients with benign breast diseases, and 66 healthy volunteers using methylation-specific PCR. The methylated APC and RARβ2 were significantly higher in breast cancer patients (93.4%, 95.6%) than benign (7.8%, 14.5%) but not detected in healthy volunteers (0%) at (P < 0.0001). Both methylated genes showed no significant difference among clinicopathological factors apart from triple negative breast cancer patients as all of them (χ(2)  = 7.4, P = 0.007) reported to be methylated RARβ2 genes. Both methylated genes were detected in all grades and stages. Both sensitivities and specificities of the methylated genes for breast cancer detection were superior to traditional tumor markers in detection of breast cancer, early stage, low grade tumors, and triple negative breast cancer patients. Thus methylated APC and RARβ2 genes might be valuable serum-based molecular markers for early detection of breast cancer.

Antiretrovirals do not prevent anal intraepithelial neoplasia. However, the influence of antiretrovirals in the natural history of invasive anal cancer is less clear. The objective is to investigate the impact of antiretrovirals in the time to the development of anal cancer in HIV-positive MSM.

A retrospective analysis of cases of anal cancer in a cohort of HIV-positive MSM receiving antiretrovirals between 1988 and 2008.

Time from first CD4 cell count or HIV RNA viral load test to anal cancer diagnosis was analysed using Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier curves. Anal cancer cases treated in the era prior to HAART (<1996) were compared with those treated later (1996-2008).

Anal cancer cases (n = 37) were compared with a cohort of 1654 HIV-positive MSM on antiretrovirals. Antiretrovirals were started in the pre-HAART era by 70% of cancer cases, and median CD4 cell count nadir was 70 cells/μl (10-130). Time to development of anal cancer was shorter for cases treated during the pre-HAART era [adjusted hazard ratio (AHR) 3.04, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.48-6.24, P = 0.002], with a CD4 cell count nadir less than 100 cells/μl (AHR 2.21, 95% CI 1.06-4.62, P = 0.035) and longer duration of CD4 cell count less than 100 cells/μl (AHR 1.33, 95% CI 1.11-1.58, P = 0.002).

Results show that severe immunosuppression and starting therapy pre-HAART are associated with an increased risk of anal cancer. HIV-positive MSM initiating antiretrovirals during the HAART era (1996-2008) had a longer time to the development of anal cancer than those treated pre-HAART. Our results suggest that early use of HAART may delay progression to anal cancer.

To compare prevalence of anxiety in ovarian cancer patients following primary treatment to that of normal women and to examine predicting factor.

In this cross-sectional study, 56 ovarian cancer patients who had primary surgical treatment within the past five years (cancer group) and 56 age-matched women who attended an outpatient clinic for check-ups (non-cancer group) were recruited from June 2013 to January 2014. The hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS), was used to determine anxiety level of the participants with the score of ≥11 suggestive of anxiety. The prevalence of anxiety symptoms and mean HADS scores for anxiety were compared between the study groups. For those with ovarian cancer, associations of demographic and clinical factors with anxiety was examined. A p-value of <0.05 was considered significant.

Participants in the non-cancer group had higher rate of medical comorbidity, higher salary, and more frequent university education. The prevalence of anxiety was not different between the groups, at 7.1% each. The mean HADS scores for anxiety subscale were not significantly different between the groups, 5.0 in the cancer group vs 6.1 in the non-cancer group (p=0.09). On multivariable analysis, no demographic or clinical factors significantly associated with anxiety were identified. For the cancer group, no association between any particular factors and anxiety was demonstrated.

The prevalence of anxiety in women with ovarian cancer following primary treatment was comparable to that of normal women seeking routine check-up.

Much interest has been drawn to possible associations between vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene polymorphisms and colorectal cancer risk in conjunction with potentially protective effects of calcium and vitamin D. In a study of 685 cases of colorectal cancer and 778 community controls in Japan, we examined the associations of the FokI, BsmI, ApaI, and TaqI polymorphisms with colorectal cancer risk and effect modification by dietary calcium and vitamin D. Genotypes were determined by the PCR-RFLP method. The ApaI polymorphism seemed to be associated with a decreased risk of colorectal cancer, particularly of rectal cancer. The adjusted odds ratio of colorectal cancer for the ApaI AA and Aa genotypes combined versus the aa genotype was 0.83 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.67-1.02), and the corresponding value for rectal cancer was 0.75 (95%CI 0.56-0.99). A decreased risk of colorectal cancer for the ApaI AA and Aa genotypes combined was more evident in individuals with high calcium intake (interaction p=0.055). The FokI polymorphism seemed to be associated with a decreased risk of colon cancer among those with high vitamin D intake (interaction p=0.09). The BsmI and TaqI polymorphisms were unrelated to colorectal cancer risk, and the null associations were not modified by calcium or vitamin D intake. In conclusion, the ApaI polymorphism may be associated with a decreased risk of colorectal cancer in Japanese, dependent on dietary calcium intake.

Breast cancer is one of the most common cancer types in women and is amongst the most devastating and stressful events in the life of women. The external appearance of breast cancer patients usually changes due to the surgical and/or medical therapies used. An association may be found between social support perception and social appearance anxiety in patients with breast cancer in the period after mastectomy. Therefore, this study investigated the social appearance anxiety and social support status in women with breast cancer in our country.

A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted in breast cancer patients undergoing treatment or follow-up in Medical Oncology and General Surgery departments.

The mean age of the participants was 51.13 ± 8.48 years (range, 24-74 years) with nearly half of the patients (40.6%) aged 40-50 years. Of the patients, 39.1% had stage 3 breast cancer. The mean score on Cancer Patient's Social Support Scale (CPSSS) was 134.85 ± 9.35, and there was a significant difference in CPSSS total scores between the age groups, educational levels, self-reported income levels and stage of disease (p<0.05). The mean Social Image Anxiety Scale (SIAS) score was found to be 34.30 ± 9.35 (min:16, max:66) in women participating in this study. The CPSSS and SIAS scores of the participants were inversely correlated, and the SIAS score was found to decrease with the increasing CPSSS score but with no statistically significant difference (r=-0.110, p=0.217).

Social appearance anxiety is higher in the patients with poor social support.

To determine the diagnostic yield of primary circulating tumor cells in women with suspicion of breast cancer, detected as a result of an abnormal mammography.

Consecutive women presenting for breast biopsy as a result of a mammogram BiRADs of 3 or more, had an 8 ml blood sample taken for primary circulating tumor cell (CTC) detection. Mononuclear cells were obtained using differential gel centrifugation and CTCs identified using standard immunocytochemistry using anti-mammoglobin. A test was determined to be positive if 1 CTC was detected.

A total of 144 women with a mean age of 54.7 ± 15.6 years participated, 78/144 (53.0%) had breast cancer on biopsy, 65/140 (46.3%) benign pathologies and 1(0.7%) non-Hogkins lymphoma. Increasing BiRADs scores were associated with increased cancer detection (p=0.004, RR 1.00, 4.24, 8.50). CTC mammoglobin positive had a sensitivity of 81.1% and specificity of 90.9%, with positive and negative predictive values of 90.9% and 81.1% respectively. Mammoglobin positive CTCs detected 87% of invasive cancers, while poorly differentiated cancers were negative for mammoglobin. Only 50% of in situ cancers and none of the intraductal cancers had CTCs detected. Menopausal status did not affect the diagnostic yield of the CTC test, which was higher in women with BiRADS 4 mammograms. There was a significant trend (p<0.0001 Chi squared for trends) in CTC detection frequency from intraductal, in situ and invasive (OR 1.00, 8.00, 472.00).

The use of primary CTC detection in women suspected of breast cancer has potential uses, especially with invasive cancer, but it failed to detect intra-ductal cancer and 50% of in situ cancer. There was no difference in the diagnostic yield between pre and post menopausal women. To confirm its use in reducing biopsies in women with BIRADs 4a mammagrams and in the detection of interval invasive breast cancer, larger studies are needed.

Evidence on the association between vitamin D status and pancreatic cancer risk is inconsistent. This inconsistency may be partially attributable to variation in vitamin D regulating genes. We selected 11 vitamin D-related genes (GC, DHCR7, CYP2R1, VDR, CYP27B1, CYP24A1, CYP27A1, RXRA, CRP2, CASR and CUBN) totaling 213 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and examined associations with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Our study included 3,583 pancreatic cancer cases and 7,053 controls from the genome-wide association studies of pancreatic cancer PanScans-I-III. We used the Adaptive Joint Test and the Adaptive Rank Truncated Product statistic for pathway and gene analyses, and unconditional logistic regression for SNP analyses, adjusting for age, sex, study and population stratification. We examined effect modification by circulating vitamin D concentration (≤50, >50 nmol/L) for the most significant SNPs using a subset of cohort cases (n = 713) and controls (n = 878). The vitamin D metabolic pathway was not associated with pancreatic cancer risk (p = 0.830). Of the individual genes, none were associated with pancreatic cancer risk at a significance level of p<0.05. SNPs near the VDR (rs2239186), LRP2 (rs4668123), CYP24A1 (rs2762932), GC (rs2282679), and CUBN (rs1810205) genes were the top SNPs associated with pancreatic cancer (p-values 0.008-0.037), but none were statistically significant after adjusting for multiple comparisons. Associations between these SNPs and pancreatic cancer were not modified by circulating concentrations of vitamin D. These findings do not support an association between vitamin D-related genes and pancreatic cancer risk. Future research should explore other pathways through which vitamin D status might be associated with pancreatic cancer risk.

Pancreatic cancer has poor prognosis and existing interventions provide a modest benefit. Statin has anti-cancer properties that might enhance survival in pancreatic cancer patients. We sought to determine whether statin treatment after cancer diagnosis is associated with longer survival in those with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).

We analyzed data on 7813 elderly patients with PDAC using the linked Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) - Medicare claims files. Information on the type, intensity and duration of statin use after cancer diagnosis was extracted from Medicare Part D. We treated statin as a time-dependent variable in a Cox regression model to determine the association with overall survival adjusting for follow-up, age, sex, race, neighborhood income, stage, grade, tumor size, pancreatectomy, chemotherapy, radiation, obesity, dyslipidemia, diabetes, chronic pancreatitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

Overall, statin use after cancer diagnosis was not significantly associated with survival when all PDAC patients were considered (HR = 0.94, 95%CI 0.89, 1.01). However, statin use after cancer diagnosis was associated with a 21% reduced hazard of death (Hazard ratio = 0.79, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.67, 0.93) in those with grade I or II PDAC and to a similar extent in those who had undergone a pancreatectomy, in those with chronic pancreatitis and in those who had not been treated with statin prior to cancer diagnosis.

We found that statin treatment after cancer diagnosis is associated with enhanced survival in patients with low-grade, resectable PDAC.

Stomach cancer is the fourth most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer- related death through the world. It is predicted that the number of new cancer cases will be more than 15 million cases by 2020. Regarding the lack of studies on this topic in the country, we have thoroughly examined the patho-epidemiology of stomach cancer in Iran.

In this cross- sectional study data were collected retrospectively reviewing all new stomach cancer patients in Cancer Registry Center report of health deputy for Iran during a 6-year period (2003-2008). The study also examined the morphology of common stomach cancers. Trends in incidence and morphology underwent joinpoint regression analysis.

During the six-year period, a total of 35,171 cases of stomach cancer were registered. Average age standardized rate for females and males were equal to 7.1 and 15.1 per 100,000 persons, respectively. Most common histological type was adenocarcinoma, NOS with 21,980 cases (62.50%). The annual percentage change (APC) in age-standardized incidence rate (per 100,000) was increase in both females and males at 11.1 (CI: 4.3 to 18.3) and 9.2 (CI: 5.2 to 13.4), respectively.

According to our results, the incidence of gastric cancer is increasing in Iran, so further epidemiological studies into the etiology and early detection are essential.

Cervical cancer is the most common malignant cancer of the female reproductive organs worldwide. Currently, cervical cancer can be prevented by vaccination and detected at an early stage via various screening methods. Malaysia, as a developing country faces a heavy disease burden of cervical cancer as it is the second most common cancer among Malaysian women. This population based study was carried out to fulfil the primary aim of determining the survival rates of Malaysian women with cervical cancer and associated factors. Data were obtained from two different sources namely, the Malaysian National Cancer Registry (MNCR) and National Health Informatics Centre (NHIC) from 1st January 2000 to 31st December 2005. Kaplan Meier analyses were conducted to identify the overall survival rates and median survival time. Differences in survival among different ethnic and age group were compared using the log-rank test. A total of 5,859 patients were included. The median survival time for cervical cancer in this study was 65.8 months and the 5-year survival rate was 71.1%. The overall observed survival rates at 1, 3 and 5 years were 94.1%, 79.3% and 71.1% respectively. The log-rank test finding also showed that there were significant differences in the 5-year survival rate among different ethnic groups. Malays had the lowest survival rate of 59.2% followed by Indians (69.5%) and Chinese (73.8%). The overall 5-year survival rate among patients with cervical cancer in Malaysia is relatively good. Age and ethnic groups remain as significant determining factors for cervical cancer survival rate.

Evidence is inconsistent regarding alcohol and pancreatic cancer risk, although heavy drinking may increase risk.

A population-based case-control study was conducted using 345 pancreas cancer cases diagnosed 2011-2012 and 1,285 frequency-matched controls from Ontario, Canada. Logistic regression was used to evaluate alcohol consumption and pancreatic cancer risk; data was also stratified by sex and smoking status to assess interaction.

Alcohol consumption was not associated with pancreatic cancer risk (age-adjusted odds ratio=0.78, 95% CI: 0.58, 1.05 for 1 - 3 drinks/week; age-adjusted odds ratio=0.86, 95% CI: 0.63, 1.17 for 4 - 20 drinks/week), however there was a non-significant increased risk for heavy drinkers consuming ≥ 21 drinks/week (age-adjusted odds ratio=1.35, 95% CI: 0.81, 2.27). Cigarette smoking modified the alcohol-cancer relationship; among current smokers, heavy alcohol consumption was associated with a significantly increased pancreatic cancer risk (age-adjusted odds ratio=4.04, 95% CI: 1.58, 10.37), whereas this significant association with heavy drinking was not observed among non-smokers (age-adjusted odds ratio=2.01, 95% CI: 0.50, 8.18). Furthermore, light - moderate alcohol intake was associated with increased pancreas cancer risk among current smokers.

While alcohol was not significantly associated with pancreatic cancer risk, smoking status modified this relationship such that among current smokers, alcohol intake was associated with a greater than two-fold increased risk of pancreatic cancer. The results should be interpreted with caution due to small sample sizes within subgroups and correction for multiple comparisons should be considered. These findings should be replicated in larger studies where more precise estimates of risk can be obtained.

The objective of this study was to estimate the subsequent cancer risk of women after receiving hysterosalpingography (HSG) by conducting a nationwide retrospective cohort study. We identified a study cohort of 4,371 patients who had had a HSG examination and a comparison cohort of 17,484 women without HSG examination between 1998 and 2005. Both cohorts were followed up with until the end of 2010 to measure the incidence of cancer. The risk of developing cancer for patients with HSG was assessed using the Cox proportional hazard model. In the multivariate analyses, the HSG cohort did not have a significantly greater risk of cancer (Hazard Ratio [HR] = 1.02, 95% CI = 0.79-1.31) than the non-HSG cohort. The HR was highest for genital cancer (HR = 1.32, 95% CI = 0.77-2.25), followed by urinary system cancer (HR = 1.11, 95% CI = 0.23-5.40), and abdominal cancer not involving the GU system (HR = 1.04, 95% CI = 0.53-2.03), all of which were non-significant elevations. The cancer incidence rates, especially that for urinary system cancer, were increased in the HSG cohort, but the increase in cancer incidence was small and not statistically significant.

To provide background information for strengthening cervical cancer prevention in the Pacific by mapping current human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination and cervical cancer screening practices, as well as intent and barriers to the introduction and maintenance of national HPV vaccination programmes in the region.

A cross-sectional questionnaire-based survey among ministry of health officials from 21 Pacific Island countries and territories (n=21).

Cervical cancer prevention was rated as highly important, but implementation of prevention programs were insufficient, with only two of 21 countries and territories having achieved coverage of cervical cancer screening above 40%. Ten of 21 countries and territories had included HPV vaccination in their immunization schedule, but only two countries reported coverage of HPV vaccination above 60% among the targeted population. Key barriers to the introduction and continuation of HPV vaccination were reported to be: (i) Lack of sustainable financing for HPV vaccine programs; (ii) Lack of visible government endorsement; (iii) Critical public perception of the value and safety of the HPV vaccine; and (iv) Lack of clear guidelines and policies for HPV vaccination.

Current practices to prevent cervical cancer in the Pacific Region do not match the high burden of disease from cervical cancer. A regional approach, including reducing vaccine prices by bulk purchase of vaccine, technical support for implementation of prevention programs, operational research and advocacy could strengthen political momentum for cervical cancer prevention and avoid risking the lives of many women in the Pacific.

To explore the sensitivity of gastric cancer cells to chemotherapy drugs in elderly patients and its correlation with cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in cancer tissue.

Forty-three elderly patients with gastric cancer (observation group) and 31 young patients with gastrointestinal tumors (control group) who were all diagnosed by pathology and underwent surgery in the 89th Hospital of Chinese People's Liberation Army were selected. Drug sensitivity testing of tumor cells in primary culture was carried out in both groups using a methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) method, and the expression of COX-2 and the factors related to multi-drug resistance (MDR) in cancer tissue were assessed by immunohistochemistry.

The inhibition rates (IR) of vincristine (VCR), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), oxaliplatin (L-OHP), mitomycin (MMC) and epirubicin (eADM) on tumor cells in the observation group were dramatically lower than in the control group, with statistical significance (P<0.05 or P<0.01). The positive rates of COX-2, glutathione s-transferase-π (GST-π) and P glycoprotein (P-gp) expression in cancer tissue in the observation group were all higher than in control group (P<0.05), while that of DNA topoisomerase IIα (TopoIIα) expression lower than in the control group (P<0.01). In the observation group, COX-2 expression in cancer tissue had a significantly-positive correlation with GST-π and P-gp (r=0.855, P=0.000; r=0.240, P=0.026), but a negative correlation with TopoIIα (r=-0.328, P=0.002). In the control group, COX-2 expression in cancer tissue was only correlated with P-gp positively (r=0.320, P=0.011). Bivariate correlation analysis displayed that COX-2 expression in cancer tissue in the observation group had a significantly-negative correlation with the IRs of 5-FU, L-OHP, paclitaxel (PTX) and eADM in tumor cells (r=-0.723, P=0.000; r=-0.570, P=0.000; r=-0.919, P=0.000; r=-0.781, P=0.000), but with hydroxycamptothecine (HCPT), VCR and 5-FU in the control group (r=-0.915, P=0.000; r=-0.890, P=0.000; r=-0.949, P=0.000).

Gastric cancer cells in elderly patients feature stronger MDR, which may be related to high COX-2 expression.

Many epidemiology studies report that atopic conditions such as allergies are associated with reduced pancreas cancer risk. The reason for this relationship is not yet understood. This is the first study to comprehensively evaluate the association between variants in atopy-related candidate genes and pancreatic cancer risk.

A population-based case-control study of pancreas cancer cases diagnosed during 2011-2012 (via Ontario Cancer Registry), and controls recruited using random digit dialing utilized DNA from 179 cases and 566 controls. Following an exhaustive literature review, SNPs in 180 candidate genes were pre-screened using dbGaP pancreas cancer GWAS data; 147 SNPs in 56 allergy-related immunologic genes were retained and genotyped. Logistic regression was used to estimate age-adjusted odd ratio (AOR) for each variant and false discovery rate was used to adjust Wald p-values for multiple testing. Subsequently, a risk allele score was derived based on statistically significant variants.

18 SNPs in 14 candidate genes (CSF2, DENND1B, DPP10, FLG, IL13, IL13RA2, LRP1B, NOD1, NPSR1, ORMDL3, RORA, STAT4, TLR6, TRA) were significantly associated with pancreas cancer risk. After adjustment for multiple comparisons, two LRP1B SNPs remained statistically significant; for example, LRP1B rs1449477 (AA vs. CC: AOR=0.37, 95% CI: 0.22-0.62; p (adjusted)=0.04). Furthermore, the risk allele score was associated with a significant reduction in pancreas cancer risk (p=0.0007).

Preliminary findings suggest certain atopy-related variants may be associated with pancreas cancer risk. Further studies are needed to replicate this, and to elucidate the biology behind the growing body of epidemiologic evidence suggesting allergies may reduce pancreatic cancer risk.

Although many chemotherapeutic strategies against cancer have been developed, pancreatic cancer is one of the most aggressive and intractable types of malignancies. Therefore, new strategies and anti-cancer agents are necessary to treat this disease. Metformin is a widely used drug for type-2 diabetes, and is also known as a promising candidate anti-cancer agent from recent studies in vitro and in vivo. However, the mechanisms of metformin's anti-cancer effects have not been elucidated. We demonstrated that metformin suppressed the expression of miR-221, one of the most well-known oncogenic microRNAs, in human pancreatic cancer PANC-1 cells. Moreover, we showed that the down-regulation of miR-221 by metformin caused G1-phase arrest via the up-regulation of p27, one of the direct targets of miR-221. Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is also a promising agent for cancer treatment. While recent studies showed that treatment with only TRAIL was not effective against pancreatic cancer cells, the present data showed that metformin sensitized p53-mutated pancreatic cancer cells to TRAIL. Metformin induced the expressions of death receptor 5 (DR5), a receptor for TRAIL, and Bim with a pro-apoptotic function in the downstream of TRAIL-DR5 pathway. We suggest that the up-regulation of these proteins may contribute to sensitization of TRAIL-induced apoptosis. The combination therapy of metformin and TRAIL could therefore be effective in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.

Although cancer is a genetic disease, epigenetic alterations are involved in its initiation and progression. Previous studies have shown that reprogramming of colon cancer cells using Oct3/4, Sox2, Klf4, and cMyc reduces cancer malignancy. Therefore, cancer reprogramming may be a useful treatment for chemo- or radiotherapy-resistant cancer cells. It was also reported that the introduction of endogenous small-sized, non-coding ribonucleotides such as microRNA (miR) 302s and miR-369-3p or -5p resulted in the induction of cellular reprogramming. miRs are smaller than the genes of transcription factors, making them possibly suitable for use in clinical strategies. Therefore, we reprogrammed colon cancer cells using miR-302s and miR-369-3p or -5p. This resulted in inhibition of cell proliferation and invasion and the stimulation of the mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition phenotype in colon cancer cells. Importantly, the introduction of the ribonucleotides resulted in epigenetic reprogramming of DNA demethylation and histone modification events. Furthermore, in vivo administration of the ribonucleotides in mice elicited the induction of cancer cell apoptosis, which involves the mitochondrial Bcl2 protein family. The present study shows that the introduction of miR-302s and miR-369s could induce cellular reprogramming and modulate malignant phenotypes of human colorectal cancer, suggesting that the appropriate delivery of functional small-sized ribonucleotides may open a new avenue for therapy against human malignant tumors.

Neurofilament heavy polypeptide (NEFH) has recently been identified as a candidate DNA hypermethylated gene within the functional breast cancer hypermethylome. NEFH exists in a complex with neurofilament medium polypeptide (NEFM) and neurofilament light polypeptide (NEFL) to form neurofilaments, which are structural components of the cytoskeleton in mature neurons. Recent studies reported the deregulation of these proteins in several malignancies, suggesting that neurofilaments may have a role in other cell types as well. Using a comprehensive approach, we studied the epigenetic inactivation of neurofilament genes in breast cancer and the functional significance of this event. We report that DNA methylation-associated silencing of NEFH, NEFL, and NEFM in breast cancer is frequent, cancer-specific, and correlates with clinical features of disease progression. DNA methylation-mediated inactivation of these genes occurs also in multiple other cancer histologies including pancreas, gastric, and colon. Restoration of NEFH function, the major subunit of the neurofilament complex, reduces proliferation and growth of breast cancer cells and arrests them in Go/G1 phase of the cell cycle along with a reduction in migration and invasion. These findings suggest that DNA methylation-mediated silencing of the neurofilament genes NEFH, NEFM, and NEFL are frequent events that may contribute to the progression of breast cancer and possibly other malignancies.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of most common causes of cancer-related death worldwide. Recent studies have suggested that microbial and environmental factors including diet and lifestyle can impact on colon cancer development. Vitamin D deficiency and dysfunction of vitamin D receptor (VDR) also correlate with colon cancer. Moreover, leptin, a 16-kDa polypeptide, participates in the regulation of food intake and is associated with other environmental factors affecting colon cancer through the leptin receptor. Altered levels of serum leptin and patterns of expression of its receptor (LPR) may be observed in human colon tumours. Furthermore, the collected data from in vitro and in vivo studies have indicated that consuming probiotic non-pathogenic lactic acid bacteria have beneficial effects on colon cancer. Probiotics, inflammation and vitamin D/VDR have been correlated with leptin and its receptor and are also with colon cancer. Thus, in this paper, we review recent progress on the roles of probiotic, vitamin D/VDR and leptin/LPR in inflammation and colon cancer.

Low-dose oral contraceptives (OC) were approved by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in 1999, yet despite their contraceptive and non-contraceptive health benefits, only 5% of the target population use them. Fear of increased cancer risk, particularly breast cancer, is one reason for this. Due to low OC uptake and low screening participation, a paucity of data is available on the risk of OC use and breast cancer in Japanese women. The present study investigated OC use and breast cancer risk, as well as menstrual, reproductive and family factors.

This was a clinic-based case-control study of women aged 20-69yrs who had undergone breast screening between January 2007 and December 2013 in central Tokyo. In all, 28.8% of the participants had experience with OC use. Cases were 155 women with a pathologically confirmed diagnosis of breast cancer. Controls were the remaining 12,333 women.

Increased age was a significant risk factor for breast cancer (p<0.001). A lower risk was found in premenopausal women presently taking OC compared to never users (OR 0.45; 95% CI 0.22-0.90) after adjusting for age, parity and breast feeding, and a family history of breast cancer.

Increased age rather than OC use had a greater effect on breast cancer risk. This risk may be decreased in premenopausal women with OC use, but further long-term prospective studies are necessary.

Several studies have examined the relationship between oral contraceptive pill (OCP) use, abortions and breast cancer, with mixed results. Hormonal changes associated with OCP use and abortion may increase risk of breast cancer over time, but there is a lack of studies studying this association in Saudi Arabian women.

We thererfore conducted a case control study in 192 women (92 as cases and 100 as controls), aged 30 to 65, and collected information on variables including examples related to study objectives and those which may confound findings. The Chi square test was used to detect associations between various factors and risk of breast cancer.

We found no evidence of interaction between history of abortion or frequency of abortion and breast cancer risk (Chi square=0.422, p =0.420 and 1, p =0.169) respectively. Oral contraceptives did not confer risk for breast cancer overall (OR=0.276, 95%CI 0.092-0.829, p=0.524), while long term use of OCP was associated with increased risk of breast cancer (OR=0.297, 95%CI 0.158-0.557, p=0.001), with higher association for those who used 10 years or more of OCPs (OR=0.282, 95%CI 0.095-0.835, p=0.02). Age at first use of OCPs had no effect on breast cancer risk (p=0.452) or age at diagnosis (p=0.074).

Prolonged use of OC (more than 10 years) may be associated with increased risk of breast cancer in Saudi women. Larger population based studies are needed to confirm this finding in this population.

Breast cancer is a menacing cancer, primarily affecting women. Continuous research is going on for detecting breast cancer in the early stage as the possibility of cure in early stages is bright. There are two main objectives of this current study, first establish statistics for breast cancer and second to find methodologies which can be helpful in the early stage detection of the breast cancer based on previous studies. The breast cancer statistics for incidence and mortality of the UK, US, India and Egypt were considered for this study. The finding of this study proved that the overall mortality rates of the UK and US have been improved because of awareness, improved medical technology and screening, but in case of India and Egypt the condition is less positive because of lack of awareness. The methodological findings of this study suggest a combined framework based on data mining and evolutionary algorithms. It provides a strong bridge in improving the classification and detection accuracy of breast cancer data.

To document the prevalence of depression and anxiety disorders, and their associations with mortality among hospitalized breast cancer patients.

We examined the associations between breast cancer diagnosis and the diagnoses of anxiety or depression among 4,164 hospitalized breast cancer cases matched with 4,164 non-breast cancer controls using 2006-2009 inpatient data obtained from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample database. Conditional logistic regression models were used to compute odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for the associations between breast cancer diagnosis and diagnoses of anxiety or depression. We also used binary logistic regression models to examine the association between diagnoses of depression or anxiety, and in-hospital mortality among breast cancer patients.

We observed that breast cancer cases were less likely to have a diagnosis of depression (OR=0.63, 95% CI: 0.52-0.77), and less likely to have a diagnosis of anxiety (OR=0.68, 95% CI: 0.52-0.90) compared with controls. This association remained after controlling for race/ethnicity, residential income, insurance and residential region. Breast cancer patients with a depression diagnosis also had lower mortality (OR=0.69, 95% CI: 0.52-0.89) compared with those without a depression diagnosis, but there was no significant difference in mortality among those with and without anxiety diagnoses.

Diagnoses of depression and anxiety in breast cancer patients were less prevalent than expected based on our analysis of hospitalized breast cancer patients and matched non-breast cancer controls identified in the NIS dataset using ICD-9 diagnostic codes. Results suggest that under-diagnosis of mental health problems may be common among hospitalized women with a primary diagnosis of breast cancer. Future work may fruitfully explore reasons for, and consequences of, inappropriate identification of the mental health needs of breast cancer patients.

Oral cancer is the most common cancer among men and second only to breast cancer among women in Pakistan. For the effective control and prevention of oral cancer, Pakistan needs to recognize the importance of research and generation of the evidence-base which can inform policy making and planning and implementation of intervention programs. The objective of this review was to quantify oral cancer research output in Pakistan.

A systematic electronic search in "Medline", "ISI-Web of Science" and "Pakmedinet", supplemented by a Google search, was carried out in January and February, 2014, to identify literature from Pakistan relevant to oral cancer. The selection of publications for the review was carried out according to preset criteria. Data were recorded and analyzed using Microsoft Excel.

A total of 166 publications comprising 62 case series, 36 cross sectional, 31 case control, 10 basic laboratory research, eleven reviews and two trials, were included in this review. Some 35 % of the publications focused on risk factors for oral cancer. COMSATS Institute of Information Technology was the institution with the highest contribution.

There is a lack of research in the field of oral cancer research in Pakistan. Focused efforts should be put in place to improve both quality and quantity of oral cancer research in the country.

Breast cancer is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in Jordan and worldwide. Abnormality of DNA methylation is a possible mechanism for the development of cancer. Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is involved in DNA methylation. Our aim was to study the association between genetic polymorphisms of MTHFR at two sites (C677T and A1298C) and their haplotypes and the risk of breast cancer among Jordanian females.

A case-control study involving 150 breast cancer cases and 150 controls was conducted. Controls were age-matched to cases. Polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technique and sequencing were conducted to determine the genotypes.

There was a significant difference in genotype frequency of C677T in the 41-60 year age category [cases: CC (37.4%), CT (49.5%) and TT (13.2%); controls: CC (56.3%), CT (35.6%) and TT (8%), p=0.04; ORTT vs. CC: 2.5, 95% CI: (0.9-6.9); ORat least on T: 2.1, 95%CI: (1.2-3.9)]. There was no significant difference in genotype frequency of A1298C between cases and controls [cases: AA (46.6%), AC (41.8%) and CC (11.6%); controls: AA (43%), AC (47.4%) and CC (9.6%); p=0.6]. There was a significant difference of MTHFR genetic polymorphism haplotypes among breast cancer cases and controls [cases/control: CA: 38.3/45.4%; CC: 28.9/25.2%; TA: 29.2/21; TC: 3.6/8.3; p value=0.01; ORTA vs. CA=1.6; 95% CI (1.1-2.5); p=0.02].

Genetic polymorphism of MTHFR C677T may modulate the risk of breast cancer especially in the 41-60 year age group. Additionally, TA haplotype amends the risk of breast cancer. Future studies with a larger sample size are needed to validate the role of MTHFR genetic polymorphisms in breast cancer.

Total fat intake may be associated with increased risk of breast cancer, and fish oil has been suggested as a protection factor to breast cancer. But the effect of vegetable oils is inconclusive. We aimed to investigate the association with high vegetable oils consumption and breast cancer risk, and evaluated their dose-response relationship.

We systematically searched the MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane databases, and CNKI updated to December 2014, and identified all observational studies providing quantitative estimates between breast cancer risk and different vegetable oils consumption. Fixed or random effect models were used to estimate summary odds ratios for the highest vs. lowest intake, and dose-response relationship was assessed by restricted cubic spline model and generalized least-squares trend (GLST) model.

Five prospective cohort studies and 11 retrospective case-control studies, involving 11,161 breast cancer events from more than 150,000 females, met the inclusion criteria. Compared with the lowest vegetable oils consumption, higher intake didn't increased the risk of breast cancer with pooled OR of 0.88 (95% CIs:0.77-1.01), and the result from dose- response analyses didn't show a significant positive or negative trend on the breast cancer risk for each 10 g vegetable oil/day increment (OR=0.98, 95% CIs: 0.95-1.01). In the subgroup analyses, the oils might impact on females with different strata of BMI. Higher olive oil intake showed a protective effect against breast cancer with OR of 0.74 (95% CIs: 0.60-0.92), which was not significant among the three cohort studies.

This meta-analyses suggested that higher intake of vegetable oils is not associated with the higher risk of breast cancer. Olive oil might be a protective factor for the cancer occurrence among case-control studies and from the whole. Recall bias and imbalance in study location and vegetable oils subtypes shouldn't be ignored. More prospective cohort studies are required to confirm the interaction of the impact of vegetable oils on different population and various cancer characteristic, and further investigate the relationship between different subtype oils and breast cancer.

Few modifiable risk factors for prostate cancer are known. Recently, disruption of the circadian system has been proposed to affect risk, as it entails an inhibited melatonin production, and melatonin has demonstrated beneficial effects on cancer inhibition. This suggests a potential role of traffic noise in prostate cancer.

Road traffic and railway noise was calculated for all present and historical addresses from 1987-2010 for a cohort of 24,473 middle-aged, Danish men. During follow-up, 1,457 prostate cancer cases were identified. We used Cox Proportional Hazards Models to calculate the association between noise exposure and incident prostate cancer. Incidence Rate Ratios (IRR) were calculated as crude and adjusted for smoking status, education, socioeconomic position, BMI, waist circumference, physical activity, calendar year, and traffic noise from other sources than the one investigated.

There was no association between residential road traffic noise and risk of prostate cancer for any of the three exposure windows: 1, 5 or 10-year mean noise exposure before prostate cancer diagnosis. This result persisted when stratifying cases by aggressiveness. For railway noise, there was no association with overall prostate cancer. There was no statistically significant effect modification by age, education, smoking status, waist circumference or railway noise, on the association between road traffic noise and prostate cancer, although there seemed to be a suggestion of an association among never smokers (IRR: 1.16; 95% CI: 1.00-1.36).

The present study does not support an overall association between either railway or road traffic noise and overall prostate cancer.

With the technological advances in cancer diagnosis and treatment, the survival rates for patients with cancer are prolonged. The issue of figuring out how to improve the life quality of patients with cancer has become increasingly prominent. Pain, especially bone pain, is the most common symptom in malignancy patients, which seriously affects the life quality of patients with cancer. The research of cancer pain has a breakthrough due to the development of the animal models of cancer pain in recent years, such as the animal models of mouse femur, humerus, calcaneus, and rat tibia. The establishment of several kinds of animal models related to cancer pain provides a new platform in vivo to investigate the molecular mechanisms of cancer pain. In this review, we focus on the advances of cancer pain from bone metastasis, the mechanisms involved in cancer pain, and the drug treatment of cancer pain in the animal models.

Lung cancer is the leading contributor to cancer deaths in the developing world. Within countries, significant variability exists in the prevalence of lung cancer risk, yet limited information is available whether some of the observed variability is associated with differences in the consumption pattern of local tobacco products with differing potency. We recruited 606 lung cancer cases and 606 controls from the B.P. Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital in Nepal from 2009-2012. We estimated odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for lung cancer risk associated with different tobacco products, using unconditional logistic regression. Unfiltered cigarettes tended to be the most frequently used products across ethnic subgroup with about 53.7% of Brahmins, 60.1% of Chettris, and 52.3% of Rai/Limbu/Magar/others. In contrast, about 39.9% of Madishe/Tharu smokers reported using bidi compared with only 27.7% who smoked unfiltered cigarettes. Among those who only smoked one type of product, choor/kankat smokers had the highest lung cancer risk (OR 10.2; 95% CI 6.2-16.6), followed by bidi smokers (OR 5.6; 95% CI 3.6-8.7), unfiltered cigarettes (OR 4.9; 95% CI 3.4-7.2), and filtered cigarettes (OR 3.4; 95% CI 2.2-5.3). A clear dose-response relationship was observed between increased frequency of smoking and lung cancer risk across all ethnic subgroups. These results highlight the important role of traditional tobacco products on lung cancer risk in the low income countries.

Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women worldwide, with about 500,000 new cases and 270,000 deaths each year. Globally, it is estimated that over one million women currently have cervical cancer, most of whom have not been diagnosed, or have no access to treatment that could cure them or prolong their lives. In the United Arab Emirates (UAE) cervical cancer is the third most common cancer in women.

A population-based cross-sectional retrospective survey of cervical smear abnormalities was conducted in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, UAE, from January 2013 to December 2013 by collecting consecutive liquid-based cytology samples from the Department of Pathology at the SKMC Hospital in Abu Dhabi city.

The total number of women screened for cervical cancer for the year 2013 at SKMC was 4,593, with 225 (4.89%) abnormal smears. The majority of the abnormal smear results were atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) 114 (2.48%). This study showed 60% increase in the rate of abnormal cervical smears in the UAE over the last 10 years. In this study the highest incidence of high grade abnormalities were seen in women above the age of 61 years (1.73%), this might be due to the fact that this group of women missed the chance of screening of cervical cancer earlier in their lives or could be explained by the well-known second peak of HPV infection seen in many prevalence studies.

We conclude that the rate of abnormal cervical smear in the screened Abu Dhabi women is not different from the rate in developed countries. A notable increase in both low and high grade abnormalities has occurred within the last decade.

Lung cancer is the most frequently occurring cancer in the world and continually leads in mortality among cancers. The overall 5-year survival rate for lung cancer has risen only 4% (from 12% to 16%) over the past 4 decades, and late diagnosis is a major obstacle in improving lung cancer prognosis. Survival of patients undergoing lung resection is greater than 80%, suggesting that early detection and diagnosis of cancers before they become inoperable and lethal will greatly improve mortality. Lung cancer biomarkers can be used for screening, detection, diagnosis, prognosis, prediction, stratification, therapy response monitoring, and so on. This review focuses on noninvasive diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. For that purpose, our discussion in this review will focus on biological fluid-based biomarkers. The body fluids include blood (serum or plasma), sputum, saliva, BAL, pleural effusion, and VOC. Since it is rich in different cellular and molecular elements and is one of the most convenient and routine clinical procedures, serum or plasma is the main source for the development and validation of many noninvasive biomarkers. In terms of molecular aspects, the most widely validated ones are proteins, some of which are used in the clinical sector, though in limited accessory purposes. We will also discuss the lung cancer (protein) biomarkers in clinical trials and currently in the validation phase with hundreds of samples. After proteins, we will discuss microRNAs, methylated DNA, and circulating tumor cells, which are being vigorously developed and validated as potential lung cancer biomarkers. The main aim of this review is to provide researchers and clinicians with an understanding of the potential noninvasive lung cancer biomarkers in biological fluids that have recently been discovered.

Prophylactic aspirin has been considered to be beneficial in reducing the risks of heart disease and cancer. However, potential benefits must be balanced against the possible harm from side effects, such as bleeding and gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms. It is particularly important to know the risk of side effects when aspirin is used as primary prevention--that is when used by people as yet free of, but at risk of developing, cardiovascular disease (CVD) or cancer. In this report we aim to identify and re-analyse randomised controlled trials (RCTs), systematic reviews and meta-analyses to summarise the current scientific evidence with a focus on possible harms of prophylactic aspirin in primary prevention of CVD and cancer.

To identify RCTs, systematic reviews and meta-analyses of RCTs of the prophylactic use of aspirin in primary prevention of CVD or cancer. To undertake a quality assessment of identified systematic reviews and meta-analyses using meta-analysis to investigate study-level effects on estimates of benefits and risks of adverse events; cumulative meta-analysis; exploratory multivariable meta-regression; and to quantify relative and absolute risks and benefits.

We identified RCTs, meta-analyses and systematic reviews, and searched electronic bibliographic databases (from 2008 September 2012) including MEDLINE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, and Science Citation Index. We limited searches to publications since 2008, based on timing of the most recent comprehensive systematic reviews.

In total, 2572 potentially relevant papers were identified and 27 met the inclusion criteria. Benefits of aspirin ranged from 6% reduction in relative risk (RR) for all-cause mortality [RR 0.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.88 to 1.00] and 10% reduction in major cardiovascular events (MCEs) (RR 0.90, 95% CI 0.85 to 0.96) to a reduction in total coronary heart disease (CHD) of 15% (RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.69 to 1.06). Reported pooled odds ratios (ORs) for total cancer mortality ranged between 0.76 (95% CI 0.66 to 0.88) and 0.93 (95% CI 0.84 to 1.03). Inclusion of the Women's Health Study changed the estimated OR to 0.82 (95% CI 0.69 to 0.97). Aspirin reduced reported colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence (OR 0.66, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.02). However, including studies in which aspirin was given every other day raised the OR to 0.91 (95% CI 0.74 to 1.11). Reported cancer benefits appeared approximately 5 years from start of treatment. Calculation of absolute effects per 100,000 patient-years of follow-up showed reductions ranging from 33 to 46 deaths (all-cause mortality), 60-84 MCEs and 47-64 incidents of CHD and a possible avoidance of 34 deaths from CRC. Reported increased RRs of adverse events from aspirin use were 37% for GI bleeding (RR 1.37, 95% CI 1.15 to 1.62), between 54% (RR 1.54, 95% CI 1.30 to 1.82) and 62% (RR 1.62, 95% CI 1.31 to 2.00) for major bleeds, and between 32% (RR 1.32, 95% CI 1.00 to 1.74) and 38% (RR 1.38, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.82) for haemorrhagic stroke. Pooled estimates of increased RR for bleeding remained stable across trials conducted over several decades. Estimates of absolute rates of harm from aspirin use, per 100,000 patient-years of follow-up, were 99-178 for non-trivial bleeds, 46-49 for major bleeds, 68-117 for GI bleeds and 8-10 for haemorrhagic stroke. Meta-analyses aimed at judging risk of bleed according to sex and in individuals with diabetes were insufficiently powered for firm conclusions to be drawn.

Searches were date limited to 2008 because of the intense interest that this subject has generated and the cataloguing of all primary research in so many previous systematic reviews. A further limitation was our potential over-reliance on study-level systematic reviews in which the person-years of follow-up were not accurately ascertainable. However, estimates of number of events averted or incurred through aspirin use calculated from data in study-level meta-analyses did not differ substantially from estimates based on individual patient data-level meta-analyses, for which person-years of follow-up were more accurate (although based on less-than-complete assemblies of currently available primary studies).

We have found that there is a fine balance between benefits and risks from regular aspirin use in primary prevention of CVD. Effects on cancer prevention have a long lead time and are at present reliant on post hoc analyses. All absolute effects are relatively small compared with the burden of these diseases. Several potentially relevant ongoing trials will be completed between 2013 and 2019, which may clarify the extent of benefit of aspirin in reducing cancer incidence and mortality. Future research considerations include expanding the use of IPD meta-analysis of RCTs by pooling data from available studies and investigating the impact of different dose regimens on cardiovascular and cancer outcomes.

The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.

c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), known as a stress-activated protein kinase, regulates normal epithelial biological processes, including assembly of adherens and tight junctions, and it is involved in the development of several cancers. The JNK inhibitor SP600125 enhances epithelial barrier function through modulation of tight junction molecules in normal human pancreatic epithelial cells. Furthermore, this JNK inhibitor suppresses the growth of human pancreatic cancer cells. However, the effects of SP600125 on the epithelial barrier in human pancreatic cancer cells remain unknown. In the present study, the JNK inhibitor SP600125 markedly enhanced the barrier function and cell elongation of well-differentiated human pancreatic cancer cell line HPAC in a Ca-switch model. The epithelial barrier function induced by SP600125 was regulated by phosphorylated β-catenin without changes in the tight junction molecules. The cell elongation induced by SP600125 was closely related to the expression of the F-actin-binding protein DrebrinE. These findings suggest that JNK is involved in the regulation of the epithelial barrier function and cell shape during remodeling of pancreatic cancer cells. The JNK inhibitor SP600125 may have potential as a therapeutic drug for pancreatic cancer via induction of differentiation.

National and subspecialty guidelines for lung and esophageal cancers recommend treatment decisions to be made in a multidisciplinary tumor board (MTB). This study prospectively analyzes the actual impact of presentation at the thoracic tumor board on decision making in thoracic cancer cases.

During the electronic submission process for presentation at MTB managing physicians documented their current treatment plan. The initial treatment plan was compared with the MTB final recommendation. Patient demographics, physician's proposed treatment plan, MTB recommendation, and documentation of application of MTB recommendations were prospectively recorded in an Institutional Review Board approved database.

Between June 2010 and December 2012, 185 patients with esophageal and 294 patients with lung cancer were presented at the MTB. One hundred sixty-six patients were presented on more than 1 occasion, resulting in 724 assessments of 479 patients. In 48 esophageal cancer patients (26%) and 118 lung cancer patients (40%) MTB recommendations differed from the initial treatment plan. Overall, a differing MTB recommendation from the primary treatment plan occurred in 330 of 724 case presentations (46%). The MTB recommendations changed treatment plans in 40% and staging and assessment plans in 60% of patients. Follow-up in a cohort of 249 patients confirmed that MTB recommendations were followed in 97% of cases.

This study validates the impact of the thoracic MTB. Recommendations will differ from the managing providers' initial plan in 26% to 40% of cases. However, MTB recommendations can be successfully initiated in the majority of patients. Complex thoracic cancer patients will benefit from multidisciplinary review and should ideally be presented at tumor board.

Breast tumors often show profound sensitivity to exogenous oxidative stress. Investigational agent 2-(4-amino-3-methylphenyl)-5-fluorobenzothiazole (5F 203) induces aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-mediated DNA damage in certain breast cancer cells. Since AhR agonists often elevate intracellular oxidative stress, we hypothesize that 5F 203 increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) to induce DNA damage, which thwarts breast cancer cell growth. We found that 5F 203 induced single-strand break formation. 5F 203 enhanced oxidative DNA damage that was specific to breast cancer cells sensitive to its cytotoxic actions, as it did not increase oxidative DNA damage or ROS formation in nontumorigenic MCF-10A breast epithelial cells. In contrast, AhR agonist and procarcinogen benzo[a]pyrene and its metabolite, 1,6-benzo[a]pyrene quinone, induced oxidative DNA damage and ROS formation, respectively, in MCF-10A cells. In sensitive breast cancer cells, 5F 203 activated ROS-responsive kinases: c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (p38). AhR antagonists (alpha-naphthoflavone, CH223191) or antioxidants (N-acetyl-l-cysteine, EUK-134) attenuated 5F 203-mediated JNK and p38 activation, depending on the cell type. Pharmacological inhibition of AhR, JNK, or p38 attenuated 5F 203-mediated increases in intracellular ROS, apoptosis, and single-strand break formation. 5F 203 induced the expression of cytoglobin, an oxidative stress-responsive gene and a putative tumor suppressor, which was diminished with AhR, JNK, or p38 inhibition. Additionally, 5F 203-mediated increases in ROS production and cytoglobin were suppressed in AHR100 cells (AhR ligand-unresponsive MCF-7 breast cancer cells). Our data demonstrate 5F 203 induces ROS-mediated DNA damage at least in part via AhR, JNK, or p38 activation and modulates the expression of oxidative stress-responsive genes such as cytoglobin to confer its anticancer action.

Salivary and serum levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) have previously been studied in oral cancer with conflicting results.

We designed a controlled study to assess the correlation between pretreatment salivary and serum levels of IL-6 and IL-8, and all-cause survival and cancer recurrence in oral cancer patients.

Fifty-two oral cancer patients and 52 healthy control cases were selected. In univariate analysis, salivary IL-6 and IL-8 seemed to be more expressed in cases (p&lt;0.00

Metformin and aspirin have been studied extensively as cancer preventive or therapeutic agents. However, the effects of their combination on pancreatic cancer cells have not been investigated. Herein, we evaluated the effects of metformin and aspirin, alone or in combination, on cell viability, migration, and apoptosis as well as the molecular changes in mTOR, STAT3 and apoptotic signaling pathways in PANC-1 and BxPC3 cells. Metformin and aspirin, at relatively low concentrations, demonstrated synergistically inhibitory effects on cell viability. Compared to the untreated control or individual drug, the combination of metformin and aspirin significantly inhibited cell migration and colony formation of both PANC-1 and BxPC-3 cells. Metformin combined with aspirin significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of mTOR and STAT3, and induced apoptosis as measured by caspase-3 and PARP cleavage. Remarkably, metformin combined with aspirin significantly downregulated the anti-apoptotic proteins Mcl-1 and Bcl-2, and upregulated the pro-apoptotic proteins Bim and Puma, as well as interrupted their interactions. The downregulation of Mcl-1 and Bcl-2 was independent of AMPK or STAT3 pathway but partially through mTOR signaling and proteasome degradation. In a PANC-1 xenograft mouse model, we demonstrated that the combination of metformin and aspirin significantly inhibited tumor growth and downregulated the protein expression of Mcl-1 and Bcl-2 in tumors. Taken together, the combination of metformin and aspirin significantly inhibited pancreatic cancer cell growth in vitro and in vivo by regulating the pro- and anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members, supporting the continued investigation of this two drug combination as chemopreventive or chemotherapeutic agents for pancreatic cancer.

Many rectal cancer patients experience tumor downstaging and some are found to achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT). Previous data suggest that there is an association between the time interval from nCRT completion to surgery and tumor response rates, including pCR. However, these studies have been primarily from single institutions with small sample sizes. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between a longer interval after nCRT and pCR in a nationally representative cohort of rectal cancer patients.

Clinical stage II to III rectal cancer patients undergoing nCRT with a documented surgical resection were selected from the 2006 to 2011 National Cancer Data Base. Multivariable logistic regression analysis was used to assess the association between the nCRT-surgery interval time (<6 weeks, 6 to 8 weeks, >8 weeks) and the odds of pCR. The relationship between nCRT-surgery interval, surgical morbidity, and tumor downstaging was also examined.

Overall, 17,255 patients met the inclusion criteria. An nCRT-surgery interval time >8 weeks was associated with higher odds of pCR (odds ratio [OR] 1.12, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.25) and tumor downstaging (OR 1.11, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.25). The longer time delay was also associated with lower odds of 30-day readmission (OR 0.82, 95% CI 0.70 to 0.92).

An nCRT-surgery interval time >8 weeks results in increased odds of pCR, with no evidence of associated increased surgical complications compared with an interval of 6 to 8 weeks. These data support implementation of a lengthened interval after nCRT to optimize the chances of pCR and perhaps add to the possibility of ultimate organ preservation (nonoperative management).

Several studies indicated that the diagnosis season affects the prognosis of some cancers, such as examples in the prostate, colon and breast This retrospective study aimed to investigate whether the diagnosis and recurrent season impacts the prognosis of epithelial ovarian cancer patients.

From January 2005 to August 2010, 161 epithelial ovarian cancer patients were analyzed and followed up until August 2013. Kaplan- Meier survival curves and the log-rank test were used to make the survival analysis. Multivariate analysis was conducted to identify independent prognostic factors.

The prognostic factors of overall survival in epithelial ovarian cancer patients included age, clinical stage, pathological type, histological grade, residual disease after primary surgery, recurrent season and adjuvant chemotherapy cycles. Moreover, clinical stage, histological grade, residual disease after primary surgery, recurrent season and adjuvant chemotherapy cycles also impacted the progression-free survival of epithelial ovarian cancer patients. The diagnosis season did not have a significantly relationship with the survival of operable epithelial ovarian cancer patients. Median overall survival of patients with recurrent month from April to November was 47 months, which was longer (P < 0.001) than that of patients with recurrence month from December to March (19 months). Median progression-free survival of patients with recurrence month from April to November and December to March was 20 and 8 months, respectively (P < 0.001).

The recurrence season impacts the survival of epithelial ovarian cancer patients. However, the diagnosed season does not appear to exert a significant influence.

To evaluate the value of combined detection of serum CEA, CA19-9, CA24-2, AFP, CA72-4, SCC, TPA and TPS for the clinical diagnosis of upper gastrointestinal tract (GIT) cancer and to analyze the efficacy of these tumor markers (TMs) in evaluating curative effects and prognosis. A total of 573 patients with upper GIT cancer between January 2004 and December 2007 were enrolled in this study. Serum levels of CEA, CA19-9, CA24-2, AFP, CA72-4, SCC, TPA and TPS were examined preoperatively and every 3 months postoperatively by ELISA. The sensitivity of CEA, CA19-9, CA24-2, AFP, CA72-4, SCC, TPA and TPS were 26.8%, 36.2%, 42.9%, 2.84%, 25.4%, 34.6%, 34.2% and 30.9%, respectively. The combined detection of CEA+CA199+CA242+CA724 had higher sensitivity and specificity in gastric cancer (GC) and cardiac cancer, while CEA+CA199+CA242+SCC was the best combination of diagnosis for esophageal cancer (EC). Elevation of preoperative CEA, CA19-9 and CA24-2, SCC and CA72-4 was significantly associated with pathological types (p<0.05) and TNM staging (p<0.05). Correlation analysis showed that CA24-2 was significantly correlated with CA19-9 (r=0.810, p<0.001). The levels of CEA, CA19-9, CA24-2, CA72-4 and SCC decreased obviously 3 months after operations. When metastasis and recurrence occurred, the levels of TMs significantly increased. On multivariate analysis, high preoperative CA72-4, CA24-2 and SCC served as prognostic factors for cardiac carcinoma, GC and EC, respectively. combined detection of CEA+CA199+CA242+SCC proved to be the most economic and practical strategy in diagnosis of EC; CEA+CA199+CA242+CA724 proved to be a better evaluation indicator for cardiac cancer and GC. CEA and CA19-9, CA24-2, CA72-4 and SCC, examined postoperatively during follow-up, were useful to find early tumor recurrence and metastasis, and evaluate prognosis. AFP, TPA and TPS have no significant value in diagnosis of patients with upper GIT cancer.

In spite of recent progress in cancer therapeutics and increased knowledge about the cellular and molecular biology of cancer, ovarian cancer still remains a clinical challenge. Chemoresistance followed by tumor recurrence are major causes of poor survival rates of ovarian cancer patients. In recent years, ovarian cancer has been described as a stem cell disease. In this scenario, a small percentage of ovarian tumor cells with cancer stem cell-like properties should survive therapeutic treatments by activating the self-renewal and differentiating pathways resulting in tumor progression and clinical recurrence. The mere concept that a small subset of cells in the tumor population drives tumor formation and recurrence after therapies has major implications for therapeutic development. This review focuses on the current understanding of normal and malignant ovarian stem cells in an attempt to contribute to our understanding the mechanisms responsible for tumor development as well as recurrence after chemotherapy. We also discuss recent findings on the cancer stem cell niche and how tumor and associated cells in the niche may respond to chemotherapeutic stress by activating autocrine and paracrine programs which may opt as survival mechanisms for residual cells in response to frontline chemotherapy. Using mouse ovarian cancer models we highlight the role of cancer stem cells in response to chemotherapy, and relate how cancer stem cells may impact on recurrence. Understanding the distinct mechanisms that facilitate cancer stem cell survival and propagation are likely to reveal opportunities for improving the treatment outcomes for ovarian cancer patients.

MUC13 is overexpressed and aberrantly localized in colon cancer tissue; however, the specific functions and regulation of MUC13 expression are unknown.

Stable cell lines with either overexpressed or suppressed MUC13 levels were analyzed to determine cell growth, colony formation, cell migration, and cell invasion assays. The molecular mechanisms involved in MUC13 regulation were elucidated via chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and analysis of interleukin 6 (IL6) treatments. Colon cancer tissues were analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for the protein levels of MUC13 and P-STAT5 in colon cancer cells.

Overexpression of MUC13 increased cell growth, colony formation, cell migration, and invasion. In concordance, MUC13 silencing decreased these tumorigenic features. Overexpression of MUC13 also modulated various cancer-associated proteins, including telomerase reverse transcriptase, sonic hedgehog, B cell lymphoma murine like site 1, and GATA like transcription factor 1. Additionally, MUC13-overexpressing cells showed increased HER2 and P-ERK expression. ChIP analysis revealed binding of STAT5 to the predicted MUC13 promoter. IL6 treatment of colon cancer cells increased the expression of MUC13 via activation of the JAK2/STAT5 signaling pathway. Suppression of JAK2 and STAT5 signaling by chemical inhibitors abolished IL6-induced MUC13 expression. IHC analysis showed increased expression of both P-STAT5 and MUC13 in colon cancer as compared to adjacent normal tissue.

The results of this study, for the first time, suggest functional roles of MUC13 in colon cancer progression and provide information regarding the regulation of MUC13 expression via JAK2/STAT5 which may reveal promising therapeutic approaches for colon cancer treatment.

Pancreatic cancer has a dismal prognosis and is currently the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in developed countries. The inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (Parp-1), the major protein responsible for poly(ADP-ribosy)lation in response to DNA damage, has emerged as a promising treatment for several tumour types. Here we aimed to elucidate the involvement of Parp-1 in pancreatic tumour progression. We assessed Parp-1 protein expression in normal, preneoplastic and pancreatic tumour samples from humans and from K-Ras- and c-myc-driven mouse models of pancreatic cancer. Parp-1 was highly expressed in acinar cells in normal and cancer tissues. In contrast, ductal cells expressed very low or undetectable levels of this protein, both in a normal and in a tumour context. The Parp-1 expression pattern was similar in human and mouse samples, thereby validating the use of animal models for further studies. To determine the in vivo effects of Parp-1 depletion on pancreatic cancer progression, Ela-myc-driven pancreatic tumour development was analysed in a Parp-1 knock-out background. Loss of Parp-1 resulted in increased tumour necrosis and decreased proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis. Interestingly, Ela-myc:Parp-1(-/-) mice displayed fewer ductal tumours than their Ela-myc:Parp-1(+/+) counterparts, suggesting that Parp-1 participates in promoting acinar-to-ductal metaplasia, a key event in pancreatic cancer initiation. Moreover, impaired macrophage recruitment can be responsible for the ADM blockade found in the Ela-myc:Parp-1(-/-) mice. Finally, molecular analysis revealed that Parp-1 modulates ADM downstream of the Stat3-MMP7 axis and is also involved in transcriptional up-regulation of the MDM2, VEGFR1 and MMP28 cancer-related genes. In conclusion, the expression pattern of Parp-1 in normal and cancer tissue and the in vivo functional effects of Parp-1 depletion point to a novel role for this protein in pancreatic carcinogenesis and shed light into the clinical use of Parp-1 inhibitors.

MicroRNAs are noncoding RNAs that regulate multiple cellular processes during cancer progression. Among various microRNAs, miR-630 has recently been identified to be implicated in many critical processes in human malignancies. We investigated the expression pattern and prognostic value of miR-630 in human colorectal cancer by utilizing cancer and adjacent normal specimens from 206 patients. Quantitative real-time PCR assay was used to detect the expression of miR-630, and appropriate statistical analysis was used to evaluate the association of miR-630 with overall survival. It was found that miR-630 expression was significantly increased in colorectal cancer specimens compared with that in adjacent normal specimens. It was also proved that miR-630 expression in colorectal cancer was associated with tumor invasion, lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis, and tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage. The Kaplan-Meier survival analysis proved that increased miR-630 expression was associated with poor overall survival of patients with colorectal cancer. Multivariate analysis proved that miR-630 was an independent prognostic marker after adjusted for known prognostic factors. These results confirmed the overexpression of miR-630 in human colorectal cancer and its association with tumor progression. It also suggested that miR-630 expression might serve as a prognostic biomarker for patients with colorectal cancer.

The level of evidence regarding the association between red and processed meat intakes and breast cancer risk is still low, due to insufficient prospective studies. Moreover, mechanistic data suggest that some antioxidants may modulate this relationship but epidemiological evidence is lacking. Our objectives were to investigate relationships between red and processed meat intakes and breast cancer risk, and to study whether an antioxidant supplementation modulates these associations, which, to our knowledge, has never been investigated before.

The SU.VI.MAX study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which participants received a combination of low-dose antioxidants or a placebo from 1994 to 2002. This observational prospective analysis included 4684 women among whom 190 developed a first incident breast cancer between 1994 and 2007 [mean (range) follow-up=11.3 (0-13)years]. Baseline dietary data were assessed by repeated dietary records in 1994-1995. Associations between quartiles of red and processed meat intakes and breast cancer risk were characterized by multivariate Cox proportional hazards models.

Breast cancer risk was directly associated with processed meat intake [hazard ratio (HR)Q4vsQ1=1.45 (0.92-2.27), Ptrend=0.03] and this association was stronger when excluding cooked ham [HRQ4vsQ1=1.90 (1.18-3.05), Ptrend=0.005]. In stratified analyses, processed meat intake was directly associated with breast cancer risk in the placebo group only [HRQ4vsQ1=2.46 (1.28-4.72), Ptrend=0.001], but not in the supplemented group [HRQ4vsQ1=0.86 (0.45-1.63), Ptrend=0.7].

Processed meat intake was prospectively associated with increased breast cancer risk. This study also suggests that antioxidants may modulate this association by counteracting the potential pro-carcinogenic effects of processed meat on breast cancer.

Breast cancer survival has been shown to be associated among relatives. In this study, we used a population-based cohort of Swedish sisters, both diagnosed with breast cancer, to determine whether prognostic information of a previously diagnosed sibling is useful for the clinical management of a newly diagnosed sibling.

The population-based cohort included all sister pairs, 1617 sisters, diagnosed with breast cancer in Sweden, from 1 January 1992, through 31 December 2006, with complete follow-up. All information was collected manually from original pathology reports and patient records. The Kappa statistic was used to measure the agreement of primary tumor characteristics between the sisters. We modeled the breast cancer-specific survival using multivariate (Cox) proportional hazard analyses in two steps categorizing the older sister's survival.

Estrogen receptor status was the only tumor characteristic significantly associated between the sisters [κ 0.18 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.089-0.27)]. Younger sisters with poor older sister survival showed significantly worse survival compared with patients with good older sister survival (log rank, P = 0.017). A twofold increased hazard ratio (HR) for death from breast cancer was found in younger sisters with poor older sister survival compared with patients with good sister survival [HR 2.56 (95% CI 1.16-5.65)], adjusting for age and calendar period of diagnosis, socioeconomic factors, number of children and hospital of primary tumor diagnosis. When further adjusting for primary tumor characteristics and adjuvant therapy, the risk for death from breast cancer in younger sisters with poor older sister survival became more pronounced [HR 3.35 (1.34-8.34)].

Our findings derived from a population-based cohort of Swedish sister pairs suggest that breast cancer-specific survival is inherited independent of tumor characteristics and treatment in the sibling later diagnosed with the disease. Prognostic information of a previously diagnosed sibling with breast cancer could be important in the clinical management.

Lung cancer is among the most common cancers, and the current therapeutic strategies are still inefficient in most cases. Tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a promising biological agent for cancer treatment because of its potent pro-apoptotic effect on cancer cells. However, TRAIL also induces apoptosis in normal cells and therefore may cause toxicity to normal tissues if clinically applied. To address this issue, we inserted microRNA response elements (MREs) of miR-133a, miR-137 and miR-449a, which are all underexpressed in lung cancer cells, into an adenoviral vector to regulate TRAIL expression. This MRE-regulated vector (Ad-TRAIL-MRE) was able to express TRAIL in a lung-cancer-specific fashion. No TRAIL expression was detected in normal cells. Consistently, Ad-TRAIL-MRE exerted cytotoxicity to lung cancer cells, rather than normal cells, perhaps via inducing selective apoptosis. The selective TRAIL-mediated growth-inhibiting effect was further confirmed in a tumour xenograft model. Also, Ad-TRAIL-MRE only resulted in very low hepatotoxicity when applied. Collectively, we generated a novel TRAIL-expressing adenoviral vector that was regulated by MREs. This strategy permits TRAIL expression in a lung-cancer-specific manner and is worth further studying for clinical trials.

Immunotherapy has been studied for many years in lung cancer without significant results, making the majority of oncologists quite skeptical about its possible application for non-small cell lung cancer treatment. However, the recent knowledge about immune escape and subsequent 'cancer immunoediting' has yielded the development of new strategies of cancer immunotherapy, heralding a new era of lung cancer treatment. Cancer vaccines, including both whole-cell and peptide vaccines have been tested both in early and advanced stages of non-small cell lung cancer. New immunomodulatory agents, including anti-CTLA4, anti-PD1/PDL1 monoclonal antibodies, have been investigated as monotherapy in metastatic lung cancer. To date, these treatments have shown impressive results of efficacy and tolerability in early clinical trials, leading to testing in several large, randomized Phase III trials. As these results will be confirmed, these drugs will be available in the near future, offering new exciting therapeutic options for lung cancer treatment.

Chromosomal rearrangements and fusion genes play important roles in tumor development and progression. Four high-frequency prostate cancer-specific fusion genes were recently reported in Chinese cases. We attempted to confirm one of the fusion genes, USP9Y-TTTY15, by reverse transcription PCR, but detected the presence of the USP9Y-TTTY15 fusion transcript in cancer samples, nonmalignant prostate tissues, and normal tissues from other organs, demonstrating that it is a transcription-induced chimeric RNA, which is commonly produced in normal tissues. In 105 prostate cancer samples and case-matched adjacent nonmalignant tissues, we determined the expression level of USP9Y-TTTY15 and a previously reported transcription-induced chimeric RNA, SLC45A3-ELK4. The expression levels of both chimeric RNAs vary greatly in cancer and normal cells. USP9Y-TTTY15 expression is neither higher in cancer than adjacent normal tissues, nor correlated with features of advanced prostate cancer. Although the expression level of SLC45A3-ELK4 is higher in cancer than normal cells, and a dramatic increase in its expression from normal to cancer cells is correlated with advanced disease, its expression level in cancer samples alone is not correlated with any clinical parameters. These data show that both chimeric RNAs contribute less to prostate carcinogenesis than previously reported.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women in the United States and worldwide. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated in the development and progression of lung cancer, but their role in the molecular pathogenesis of lung cancer remains unclear. We have found that MMP19, a relatively novel member of the MMP family, is overexpressed in lung tumors when compared with control subjects.

To test the hypothesis that MMP19 plays a significant role in the development and progression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

We have analyzed lung cancer gene expression data, immunostained lung tumors for MMP19, and performed in vitro assays to test the effects of MMP19 in NSCLC cells.

We found that MMP19 gene and protein expression is increased in lung cancer tumors compared with adjacent and histologically normal lung tissues. In three independent datasets, increased MMP19 gene expression conferred a poorer prognosis in NSCLC. In vitro, we found that overexpression of MMP19 promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition, migration, and invasiveness in multiple NSCLC cell lines. Overexpression of MMP19 with a mutation at the catalytic site did not impair epithelial-mesenchymal transition or expression of prometastasis genes. We also found that miR-30 isoforms, a microRNA family predicted to target MMP19, is markedly down-regulated in human lung cancer and regulates MMP19 expression.

Taken together, these findings suggest that MMP19 is associated with the development and progression of NSCLC and may be a potential biomarker of disease severity and outcome.

Transducin (β)-like 1 X-linked receptor 1(TBLR1) is an F-box-like and WD repeat-containing protein which functions as a switch in transcriptional activation, However, the clinical significance and biological role of TBLR1 in breast cancer remains largely unknown.

Western blotting, immunocytochemistry and real-time PCR were used to evaluate TBLR1 expression in normal breast epithelial cells and breast cancer cell lines, clinical tissue samples and adjacent nontumor tissues, and in 214 paraffin-embedded specimens. Statistical analyses were used to test for the prognostic and diagnostic associations. The biological role of TBLR1 -induced proliferation and tumorigenicity in breast cancer cells was explored in vitro and in vivo. The effect of TBLR1 on the expression of cyclin D1 and β-catenin signaling was examined by Western blotting, luciferase reporter assay and by several immunoprecipitation techniques.

TBLR1 was significantly upregulated in breast cancer cells and tissues compared to normal control samples. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed high expression of TBLR1 in 113 of 214 (52.8%) paraffin-embedded archival breast cancer. The overall expression level of TBLR1 was significantly correlated with clinical stage (P <0.001), the tumor classification (P <0.001), node classification (P =0.024), and metastasis classification (P = 0.004), histological grade (P = 0.044), as well as with the expression level of c-erbB2 (P = 0.036) and Ki-67 (P <0.001). Patients with higher TBLR1 expression had shorter overall survival time, whereas patients with lower TBLR1 expression had better survival. Multivariate analysis suggested that TBLR1 expression might be an independent prognostic indicator for the survival of breast cancer patients. TBLR1 overexpression promoted, whereas TBLR1 silencing inhibited, proliferation and tumorigenicity in breast cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo. We found that TBLR1 expression was implicated in the upregulation of cyclin D1, phosphorylation of cell-cycle control protein Rb (pRb) and activation of β-catenin signaling in breast cancer.

TBLR1 plays a key role in the development and progression of breast cancer cells via cyclin D1-transactivation and activation of the β-catenin signaling pathway. TBLR1 may be a novel prognostic marker and a potential therapeutic target in the treatment human breast cancer.

Indoor air pollution (IAP) caused by cooking has been associated with lung cancer risk in retrospective case-control studies in developing and rural countries. We report the association of cooking conditions, fuel use, oil use, and risk of lung cancer in a developed urban population in a prospective cohort of women in Shanghai. A total of 71,320 never smoking women were followed from 1996 through 2009 and 429 incident lung cancer cases were identified. Questionnaires collected information on household living and cooking practices for the three most recent residences and utilization of cooking fuel and oil, and ventilation conditions. Cox proportional hazards regression estimated the association for kitchen ventilation conditions, cooking fuels, and use of cooking oils for the risk of lung cancer by hazard ratios (HR) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). Ever poor kitchen ventilation was associated with a 49% increase in lung cancer risk (HR: 1.49; 95% CI: 1.15-1.95) compared to never poor ventilation. Ever use of coal was not significantly associated. However, ever coal use with poor ventilation (HR: 1.69; 95% CI: 1.22-2.35) and 20 or more years of using coal with poor ventilation (HR: 2.03; 95% CI: 1.35-3.05) was significantly associated compared to no exposure to coal or poor ventilation. Cooking oil use was not significantly associated. These results demonstrate that IAP from poor ventilation of coal combustion increases the risk of lung cancer and is an important public health issue in cities across China where people may have lived in homes with inadequate kitchen ventilation.

The impact of body mass index (BMI) on the risk of postmenopausal estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancers has been well documented. However, the mechanism for the impact of BMI on the etiology of luminal A and luminal B subtypes has not yet been identified.

We analyzed associations between BMI and breast cancers stratified by immunohistochemically defined intrinsic subtypes, and 1,297 Japanese women (615 breast cancer patients and 682 healthy women from a breast cancer screening program) were enrolled in a case-control study. ER-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancers were classified into luminal A and B subtypes according to Ki67 expression levels.

Higher BMI was significantly positively associated with postmenopausal breast cancer risk for one-unit increase in BMI (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 1.09, 95 % confidence interval (CI) 1.04-1.15; P = 0.0008). Analyses of postmenopausal women revealed that BMI was consistently and exclusively associated with luminal A incidence (aOR 1.18, 95 % CI 1.10-1.26; P < 0.0001). When BMI was divided into three categories corresponding to those of controls, among postmenopausal women, the observed positive association was confined to luminal A (high vs low, aOR 2.98, 95 % CI 1.53-5.80; P < 0.005), but not luminal B (aOR 0.95, 95 % CI 0.47-1.91) subtypes.

We observed that BMI was significantly positively associated with increased risk of postmenopausal breast cancer for Japanese women with luminal A, but not with luminal B tumor subtype.

Using a large sample of colorectal cancer (CRC) survivors we 1) describe pain interference (PI) prevalence across the cancer continuum; 2) identify demographic and clinical factors associated with PI and changes in PI; and 3) examine PI's relationship with survivors' job changes.

CRC participants of the Cancer Care Outcomes Research and Surveillance Consortium completed surveys during the initial phase of care (baseline, < 1 year, n = 2,961) and follow-up (about 1-year postdiagnosis, n = 2,303). PI was measured using the SF-12 item. Multiple logistic regression was used to identify predictors of PI. Model 1 evaluated moderate/high PI at baseline, Model 2 evaluated new/continued/increasing PI postdiagnosis follow-up, and Model 3 restricted to participants with baseline PI (N = 603) and evaluated predictors of equivalent/increasing PI. Multivariable logistic regression was also used to examine whether PI predicted job change.

At baseline and follow-up, 24.7% and 23.7% of participants reported moderate/high PI, respectively. Among those with baseline PI, 46% had equivalent/increasing PI at follow-up. Near diagnosis and at follow-up, female gender, comorbidities, depression, chemotherapy and radiation were associated with moderate/high PI while older age was protective of PI. Pulmonary disease and heart failure comorbidities were associated with equivalent/increasing PI. PI was significantly associated with no longer having a job at follow-up among employed survivors.

Almost half of survivors with PI during the initial phase of care had continued PI into post-treatment. Comorbidities, especially cardiovascular and pulmonary conditions, contributed to continued PI. PI may be related to continuing normal activities, that is, work, after completed treatment.

We investigated the nutritional and survival outcomes of medical nutrition therapy by a registered dietitian, along with support from a dedicated nutrition and metabolic support team in pancreatic cancer patients requiring enteral or parenteral nutrition.

Subjective global assessment (SGA) was used to assess nutritional status in 304 pancreatic cancer patients. Using baseline and last SGA, patients were categorized into 3 groups: improved SGA, deteriorated SGA, and unchanged SGA. Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression were used to calculate survival after controlling for relevant confounders.

One-hundred twenty-five (41.1%) patients had their SGA unchanged, 87 (28.6%) patients had "improved SGA," whereas 92 (30.3%) patients had "deteriorated SGA." On univariate survival analysis, the median survival was 7.8, 11.2, and 12.6 months for deteriorated, unchanged, and improved SGA groups, respectively. On multivariate analysis, change in SGA was independently predictive of survival. Patients with deteriorated SGA had 1.5 times (95% confidence interval, 1.1-2.1) greater risk of mortality compared to those with improved SGA.

The majority of pancreatic cancer patients (70%) in our study either maintained or improved their nutritional status during cancer treatment. Improvement in SGA correlated with a significantly decreased risk of mortality independent of sex, previous treatment history, and evidence of biological anticancer activity.

As a transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-inducible gene, the expression of Krüppel-like transcription factor 11 (KLF11) is altered in several types of cancer. In the current study, through using human 9K CpG island array, KLF11 was identified as one of hypermethylated genes in RAS-transformed ovarian T29H cells. Methylation of the KLF11 promoter was also observed in ovarian cancer tissue samples accompanied by significantly reduced KLF11 gene expression. Interestingly, the expression of SMAD2, SMAD3, and SMAD7 genes was reduced in the tumour, whilst no change was found in TGF-β expression. Our data suggest a relationship between promoter DNA methylation and KLF11 gene expression in ovarian cancer tumorigenesis.

To determine long-term outcomes in a clinical trial evaluating the role of taxane type and schedule in operable breast cancer and evaluate the impact of obesity and black race on outcome.

A total of 4,954 eligible women with stage II to III breast cancer treated with four cycles of doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide were randomly assigned to receive paclitaxel or docetaxel every 3 weeks for four doses or weekly for 12 doses using a 2 × 2 factorial design. The primary end point was disease-free survival (DFS). Results are expressed as hazard ratios (HRs) from Cox proportional hazards models. All P values are two sided.

When compared with the standard every-3-week paclitaxel arm, after a median follow-up of 12.1 years, DFS significantly improved and overall survival (OS) marginally improved only for the weekly paclitaxel (HR, 0.84; P = .011 and HR, 0.87; P = .09, respectively) and every-3-week docetaxel arms (HR, 0.79; P = .001 and HR, 0.86; P = .054, respectively). Weekly paclitaxel improved DFS and OS (HR, 0.69; P = .010 and HR, 0.69; P = .019, respectively) in triple-negative breast cancer. For hormone receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-nonoverexpressing disease, no experimental arm improved OS, and black race and obesity were associated with increased risk of breast cancer recurrence and death.

Improved outcomes initially observed for weekly paclitaxel were qualitatively similar but quantitatively less pronounced with longer follow-up, although exploratory analysis suggested substantial benefit in triple-negative disease. Further research is required to understand why obesity and race influence clinical outcome in hormone receptor-positive disease.

mTOR inhibition reverses trastuzumab resistance via the hyperactivated PIK/AKT/mTOR pathway due to PTEN loss, by sensitising PTEN-deficient tumours to trastuzumab. The BOLERO-1 study assessed the efficacy and safety of adding everolimus to trastuzumab and paclitaxel as first-line treatment for patients with HER2-positive advanced breast cancer.

In this phase 3, randomised, double-blind trial, patients were enrolled across 141 sites in 28 countries. Eligible patients were aged 18 years or older, with locally assessed HER2-positive advanced breast cancer, with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0-1, who had not received previous trastuzumab or chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer within 12 months of randomisation, had measurable disease as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) or bone lesions in the absence of measurable disease, without previous systemic treatment for advanced disease except endocrine therapy. Patients were randomly assigned (2:1) with an interactive voice and web response system to receive either 10 mg everolimus once a day orally or placebo plus weekly trastuzumab intravenously at 4 mg/kg loading dose on day 1 with subsequent weekly doses of 2 mg/kg of each 4 week cycle plus paclitaxel intravenously at a dose of 80 mg/m(2) on days 1, 8, and 15 of each 4 week cycle. Randomisation was stratified according to previous use of trastuzumab and visceral metastasis. Patients and investigators were masked to the assigned treatments. Identity of experimental treatments was concealed by use of everolimus and placebo that were identical in packaging, labelling, appearance, and administration schedule. The two primary objectives were investigator-assessed progression-free survival in the full study population and in the subset of patients with hormone receptor-negative breast cancer at baseline; the latter was added during the course of the study, before unmasking based on new clinical and biological findings from other studies. All efficacy analyses were based on the intention-to-treat population. Enrolment for this trial is closed and results of the final progression-free survival analyses are presented here. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00876395.

Between Sept 10, 2009, and Dec 16, 2012, 719 patients were randomly assigned to receive everolimus (n=480) or placebo (n=239). Median follow-up was 41·3 months (IQR 35·4-46·6). In the full population, median progression-free survival was 14·95 months (95% CI 14·55-17·91) with everolimus versus 14·49 months (12·29-17·08) with placebo (hazard ratio 0·89, 95% CI 0·73-1·08; p=0·1166). In the HR-negative subpopulation (n=311), median progression-free survival with everolimus was 20·27 months (95% CI 14·95-24·08) versus 13·08 months (10·05-16·56) with placebo (hazard ratio 0·66, 95% CI 0·48-0·91; p=0·0049); however, the protocol-specified significance threshold (p=0·0044) was not crossed. The most common adverse events with everolimus were stomatitis (314 [67%] of 472 patients in the everolimus group vs 77 [32%] of 238 patients in the placebo group), diarrhoea (267 [57%] vs 111 [47%] patients), and alopecia (221 [47%] vs 125 [53%]). The most frequently reported grade 3 or 4 adverse events in the everolimus group versus the placebo group were neutropenia (117 [25%] vs 35 [15%]), stomatitis (59 [13%] vs three [1%]), anaemia (46 [10%] vs six [3%]) and diarrhoea (43 [9%] vs 10 [4%]) On-treatment adverse event-related deaths were reported in 17 (4%) patients in the everolimus group and none in the placebo group.

Although progression-free survival was not significantly different between groups in the full analysis population, the 7·2 months prolongation we noted with the addition of everolimus in the HR-negative, HER2-positive population warrants further investigation, even if it did not meet prespecified criteria for significance. The safety profile was generally consistent with what was previously reported in BOLERO-3. Proactive monitoring and early management of adverse events in patients given everolimus and chemotherapy is crucial.

Novartis Pharmaceuticals.

Oxidative stress is a widely seen phenomenon in several carcinomas. Increasing evidence also suggests that it has a significant role in the development of epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC). 8-Hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) is one of the main indicators of oxidative stress and increased expression of 8-OHdG has previously been seen in EOC. DJ-1 is an oncoprotein connected to oxidative stress regulation, but its role in ovarian cancer is not well known. We investigated redox status in different histotypes of EOC by measuring serum 8-OHdG and DJ-1 concentrations and their associations with known prognostic factors.

Serum samples from newly diagnosed EOC patients were collected in 1996-2009 and stored at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oulu University Hospital. Serum 8-OHdG and DJ-1 levels were measured by using commercially available ELISA kits. Clinical data was gathered retrospectively from the patients` files. Results were analyzed by using SPSS software.

In total, 112 patient samples were analyzed (38 serous, 20 mucinous, 34 endometrioid and 20 clear-cell). High serum 8-OHdG levels were associated with poor overall survival (OS) (p = 0.019), poor disease-free survival (DFS) (p = 0.020), platinum resistance (p = 0.002), serous histology versus other (p = 0.033), stage III-IV versus I-II (p = 0.009) and suboptimal surgical outcome (p = 0.012). Regarding histotypes, in the endometrioid EOC group in particular, serum 8-OHdG levels were significantly associated with poor DFS (p = 0.005), suboptimal surgical outcome (p = 0.025), and platinum resistance (p = 0.007). The prognostic significance of 8-OHdG in patients with endometrioid cancer in terms of DFS was confirmed in Cox regression analysis. High DJ-1 levels were associated with high histological grade (p = 0.029) and nonsignificantly associated with serous histology vs. other histology (p = 0.089).

An elevated serum 8-OHdG level is a significant predictor of poor prognosis, especially in cases of the endometrioid subtype of ovarian carcinoma. High 8-OHdG levels are associated with all traditional factors of poor prognosis in ovarian cancer and they also predict earlier development of platinum resistance. These results could be valuable when deciding the primary treatment mode for EOC patients.

Combined treatment of oncolytic adenoviruses with chemotherapeutic agents is foreseen as a therapeutic option for cancer. Here we have investigated the potential to use gemcitabine in combination with the oncolytic adenovirus AduPARE1A to treat pancreatic cancer and evaluate the underlying mechanism.

We treated pancreatic cancer cell lines BxPC-3 and PANC-1 with AduPARE1A and gemcitabine individually or in combination and analyzed cell viability, combination index, apoptosis and viral production. We also investigated the effects of the combination on tumor growth and mice survival in two xenograft models. Furthermore, we analyzed uPAR promoter activity from different uPAR-controlled adenovirus and studied NF-κB mediated effects.

Synergistic cell killing from the combination AduPARE1A/Gemcitabine was observed in BxPC-3 and PANC-1 cells. Moreover, the combination treatment produced therapeutic benefits over either individual modality in two mouse models bearing orthotopic tumors, showing reduced tumor progression and significant prolonged mouse survival. Mechanistic studies showed that the synergistic cell death was not due to an increase in viral replication but occurred through an enhancement of apoptotic cell death. Gemcitabine stimulation increased the transcription of uPAR-controlled transgenes through the induction of NF-κB acting on the uPAR promoter. Interestingly, NF-κB gemcitabine-mediated induction of AduPAR adenoviruses interfered with the activation of NF-κB regulated genes, probably as a result of an intracellular competition for NF-κB DNA binding. Consequently, AduPARE1A infection sensitized cells to gemcitabine-induced apoptosis in the combined treatment.

These data highlights the potential of the combination as a treatment modality for pancreatic cancer patients.

This study tried to find the differences between gastric cancer in young and elderly, in addition through the importance of the presence of the upper gastrointestinal bleeding, with two examples of clinical cases.

Two groups of patients divided by age were compared. The first group consisted of 13 cases of patients aged between 32 and 41, and the second consisted of 15 cases, aged 80 to 87 years. The variables considered were: sex, personal history and family history, onset-admission interval, number of days of hospitalization after surgery, the number of days until discharge, personal history/ family history, tumor location, admission diagnosis, intervention type, value hemoglobin on admission, the way externalizing hemorrhage appeared, stage, tumor type/ degree of differentiation of its kind lymph dissection, postoperative complications and deaths.

The interval from symptom onset to hospital admission was higher in young people with a greater weight loss and malignant ulcer history or upload family were smokers, but apparently with a lower complication rate. In the elderly, the anemic syndrome was the main event and the complications were more related to comorbidities.

Prolonged gastric distress in young patients, associated with smoking, personal history of ulcer and family history of neoplasia should guide the diagnosis to gastric cancer. Anemic syndrome in the elderly may be due to the gastric cancer, and complications are due to comorbidities.

The purpose of this study was to systematically review and synthesise qualitative studies pertinent to male and female school-aged and adolescent children's experience when a parent is diagnosed with non-terminal cancer.

A rigorous systematic review and meta-synthesis process were conducted. Seven computerised databases were searched, and 2027 articles were retrieved. After screening the titles and abstracts, full texts of 24 articles were critically appraised, and finally, 16 articles were further analysed and synthesised with a thematic-synthesis approach.

Five themes were identified: being informed of parental cancer, emotional concerns, changes in daily life, seeking factual information and seeking emotional support. As indicated in the results, most children had been informed of the parent's diagnosis of cancer. They suffered from a wide range of concerns when facing the situation, and their lives had been interrupted to different degrees. In order to cope with the event, children adopted various strategies. Their information and support needs were reported to have been poorly met.

This systematic review provides insight into the scenario of children living with a parent with non-terminal cancer and indicates some suggestions for future studies. The experience of children when the father has cancer should be further explored. Short-term and long-term impacts of parental cancer on children, especially young children within different cultural contexts, should be investigated to help health care professionals provide individualised assistance to those children.

Muscular dystrophies (MD) comprise a heterogeneous group of hereditary myopathic diseases. In this group, myotonic MD is associated with an increased cancer risk. However, the cancer risk in other types of MD is unclear. To address this gap in knowledge, we assessed data obtained from the Taiwan Health Insurance Program database. A total of 1,272 patients with MD diagnosed between 1997 and 2009 were enrolled. They were followed up for cancer during the same period by record linkage with the cancer certification in Taiwan. Age- and sex-standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) of overall and site-specific cancers were calculated. For congenital and progressive hereditary MD, there were 685 and 505 cases (males: 69.5% and 80.6%), the median ages at diagnosis were 16 and 13 years, and the mean follow-up durations were 7.12 and 5.06 years, respectively. In addition, cancers were developed in 10 patients with congenital MD and 3 patients with progressive hereditary MD. Female MD patients exhibited an increased cancer risk, yielding an SIR of 3.37 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.38-8.25] in congenital MD and 2.95 (95% CI = 0.95-9.19) in hereditary progressive MD. Site-specific cancer SIRs were not powered to be significantly different. In conclusion, genetic defects in hereditary MD may increase cancer risks in females and a sex difference should be further investigated.

The association between fish consumption and colorectal cancer risk remains inconclusive. The present study systematically reviewed and meta-analyzed epidemiologic data on the association between fish consumption and colorectal cancer risk among Japanese.

Original data were obtained from MEDLINE searched using PubMed or from searches of the Ichushi database, complemented with manual searches. The associations were evaluated based on the strength of evidence, the magnitude of association and biologic plausibility. Meta-analysis was conducted according to the study design.

Five cohort studies and 12 case-control studies were identified. Fish consumption was not significantly associated with colorectal, colon or rectal cancer risks. One cohort study showed a weak positive association with colorectal cancer, and another showed a weak inverse association with colon cancer in men and a moderate and weak inverse association with colon and rectal cancers in women. As regards case-control studies, four studies reported a weak inverse association, whereas one showed a weak positive association with colon cancer. Regarding rectal cancer, four case-control studies showed a weak inverse association, but two reported a weak-to-moderate positive association. The pooled relative risk/odds ratio (95% confidence interval) of colorectal cancer for the highest versus lowest category of fish consumption was 1.03 (0.89-1.18) and 0.84 (0.75-0.94) for cohort and case-control studies, respectively.

There was insufficient evidence to support an association between fish consumption and the risk of colorectal cancer among Japanese.

Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) remain prevalent among cancer patients despite pharmacological advances in CINV therapy. Patients can initiate nonpharmacologic strategies, which potentially play an important role as adjuncts to pharmacological agents in alleviating CINV. Some studies have explored nausea and vomiting self-management (NVSM) behaviors among patients in Western settings; however, little is known about the NVSM behaviors of patients in China.

This study examines NVSM behaviors of Chinese cancer patients.

A cross-sectional survey was conducted in a specialist cancer hospital in southeast China.

A sample of 255 cancer patients was recruited. A mean of 8.56 (±3.15) NVSM behaviors was reported. Most NVSM behaviors were rated as moderately effective and were implemented with moderate self-efficacy. Higher distress levels, better functional status, previous similar symptom experiences, receiving chemotherapy as an inpatient, and greater support from multiple levels were related to greater engagement in NVSM; higher self-efficacy levels pertaining to NVSM behaviors were associated with reports of more relief from specific NVSM behaviors.

A range of NVSM strategies was initiated by Chinese cancer patients and provided some relief. A range of individual, health status, and environmental factors influenced engagement with and relief from NVSM behaviors.

To enhance Chinese patients' NVSM, patients should be supported to engage in behaviors including taking antiemetics, modifying their diet, using psychological strategies, and creating a pleasant environment. The findings highlight the importance of enhancing patients' self-efficacy in NVSM, alleviating symptom distress, and improving social support to achieve better outcomes.

The diet of the cancer patient is a major focus of prevention and treatment strategy of the recent plans that fight against cancer. It is sometimes reduced to a rapid series of more or less general advice, often interfered by other sources of information, more or less conventional. In this pathological situation where the nutritional status of the patient is paramount, it seems crucial to understand the different modalities of how the food behavior is implemented. This article describes the construction modalities of the cancer eater decisions. The goal of the socio-anthropological analysis proposed in this article is to initiate a reflection on the under nutrition problem by focusing on the approach of the eater diagnosed with cancer. The aim is to help identify ways of action to fight against under nutrition and improve the quality of life of the patient.

African Americans have a higher incidence of prostate cancer and experience poorer outcomes compared with Caucasian Americans. Racial differences in care are well documented; however, few studies have characterized patients based on their prostate cancer risk category, which is required to differentiate appropriate from inappropriate guideline application.

The medical records of a population-based sample of 777 North Carolina men with newly diagnosed prostate cancer were studied to assess the association among patient race, clinical factors, and National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guideline-concordant prostate cancer care.

African Americans presented with significantly higher Gleason scores (P = .025) and prostate-specific antigen levels (P = .008) than did Caucasian Americans. However, when clinical T stage was considered as well, difference in overall risk category only approached statistical significance (P = .055). Across risk categories, African Americans were less likely to have surgery (58.1% versus 68.0%, P = .004) and more likely to have radiation (39.0% versus 27.4%, P = .001) compared with Caucasian Americans. However, 83.5% of men received guideline-concordant care within 1 year of diagnosis, which did not differ by race in multivariable analysis (odds ratio = 0.83; 95% confidence interval  = 0.54-1.25). Greater patient-perceived access to care was associated with greater odds of receiving guideline-concordant care (odds ratio = 1.06; 95% confidence interval = 1.01-1.12).

After controlling for NCCN risk category, there were no racial differences in receipt of guideline-concordant care. Efforts to improve prostate cancer treatment outcomes should focus on improving access to the health care system.

Early-onset breast cancer (EOBC) causes substantial loss of life and productivity, creating a major burden among women worldwide. We analyzed 1,265,548 Hapmap3 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) among a discovery set of 3,523 EOBC incident cases and 2,702 population control women ages ≤ 51 years. The SNPs with smallest P values were examined in a replication set of 3,470 EOBC cases and 5,475 control women. We also tested EOBC association with 19,684 genes by annotating each gene with putative functional SNPs, and then combining their P values to obtain a gene-based P value. We examined the gene with smallest P value for replication in 1,145 breast cancer cases and 1,142 control women. The combined discovery and replication sets identified 72 new SNPs associated with EOBC (P < 4 × 10(-8)) located in six genomic regions previously reported to contain SNPs associated largely with later-onset breast cancer (LOBC). SNP rs2229882 and 10 other SNPs on chromosome 5q11.2 remained associated (P < 6 × 10(-4)) after adjustment for the strongest published SNPs in the region. Thirty-two of the 82 currently known LOBC SNPs were associated with EOBC (P < 0.05). Low power is likely responsible for the remaining 50 unassociated known LOBC SNPs. The gene-based analysis identified an association between breast cancer and the phosphofructokinase-muscle (PFKM) gene on chromosome 12q13.11 that met the genome-wide gene-based threshold of 2.5 × 10(-6). In conclusion, EOBC and LOBC seem to have similar genetic etiologies; the 5q11.2 region may contain multiple distinct breast cancer loci; and the PFKM gene region is worthy of further investigation. These findings should enhance our understanding of the etiology of breast cancer.

Cancer sequencing studies have primarily identified cancer driver genes by the accumulation of protein-altering mutations. An improved method would be annotation independent, sensitive to unknown distributions of functions within proteins and inclusive of noncoding drivers. We employed density-based clustering methods in 21 tumor types to detect variably sized significantly mutated regions (SMRs). SMRs reveal recurrent alterations across a spectrum of coding and noncoding elements, including transcription factor binding sites and untranslated regions mutated in up to ∼ 15% of specific tumor types. SMRs demonstrate spatial clustering of alterations in molecular domains and at interfaces, often with associated changes in signaling. Mutation frequencies in SMRs demonstrate that distinct protein regions are differentially mutated across tumor types, as exemplified by a linker region of PIK3CA in which biophysical simulations suggest that mutations affect regulatory interactions. The functional diversity of SMRs underscores both the varied mechanisms of oncogenic misregulation and the advantage of functionally agnostic driver identification.

Cancer patients are regularly affected by malnutrition which often leads to a worsened quality of life and activity in daily living, more side effects and complications during anticancer treatment and shorter survival times. The early diagnosis and treatment of malnutrition are therefore relevant components of oncological treatment. The assessment of the nutritional status and determination of the body-mass-index should be done in every patient with cancer. The clinical examination delivers important findings and indications for malnutrition. Bioimpedance analysis can deliver additional objective information. The treatment of malnutrition should start early and follows a step-wise escalation reaching from nutritional counseling to enteral nutritional support to parenteral nutrition.

Irreversible pyrimidine-based EGFR inhibitors, including WZ4002, selectively inhibit both EGFR-activating and EGFR inhibitor-resistant T790M mutations more potently than wild-type EGFR. Although this class of mutant-selective EGFR inhibitors is effective clinically in lung cancer patients harboring EGFR(T790M), prior preclinical studies demonstrate that acquired resistance can occur through genomic alterations that activate ERK1/2 signaling. Here, we find that ERK1/2 reactivation occurs rapidly following WZ4002 treatment. Concomitant inhibition of ERK1/2 by the MEK inhibitor trametinib prevents ERK1/2 reactivation, enhances WZ4002-induced apoptosis, and inhibits the emergence of resistance in WZ4002-sensitive models known to acquire resistance via both T790M-dependent and T790M-independent mechanisms. Resistance to WZ4002 in combination with trametinib eventually emerges due to AKT/mTOR reactivation. These data suggest that initial cotargeting of EGFR and MEK could significantly impede the development of acquired resistance in EGFR-mutant lung cancer.

Patients with EGFR-mutant lung cancer develop acquired resistance to EGFR and mutant-selective EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Here, we show that cotargeting EGFR and MEK can prevent the emergence of a broad variety of drug resistance mechanisms in vitro and in vivo and may be a superior therapeutic regimen for these patients.

Social inclusion theory has been used to understand how people at the margins of society engage with service provision. The aim of this paper was to explore the cancer care experiences of Aboriginal people in NSW using a social inclusion lens.

Qualitative interviews were conducted with 22 Aboriginal people with cancer, 18 carers of Aboriginal people and 16 health care workers.

Participants' narratives described experiences that could be considered to be situational factors in social inclusion such as difficulties in managing the practical and logistic aspects of accessing cancer care. Three factors were identified as processes of social inclusion that tied these experiences together including socio-economic security, trust (or mistrust arising from historic and current experience of discrimination), and difficulties in knowing the system of cancer treatment.

These three factors may act as barriers to the social inclusion of Aboriginal people in cancer treatment. This challenges the cancer care system to work to acknowledge these forces and create practical and symbolic responses, in partnership with Aboriginal people, communities and health organisations.

The principles of cancer immunoediting have set the foundations for understanding the dual host-protective and tumour sculpting actions of immunity on cancer and establishing the basis for novel individualized cancer immunotherapies. During cancer immunoediting, the host immune system shapes tumour fate in three phases through the activation of innate and adaptive immune mechanisms. In the first phase, Elimination, transformed cells are destroyed by a competent immune system. Sporadic tumour cells that manage to survive immune destruction may then enter an Equilibrium phase where editing occurs. The Escape phase represents the third and final phase of the process, where immunologically sculpted tumours begin to grow progressively, become clinically apparent and establish an immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment. This review focuses on important recent developments that have enhanced our understanding of each phase of the cancer immunoediting process, summarizes the discovery of new predictive and prognostic biomarkers and discusses development of novel and objectively effective cancer immunotherapies.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a common complication in patients with cancer. Because of their improved subcutaneous bioavailability and reliable antithrombotic efficiency low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWH) are preferably used for prevention and treatment of cancer-related VTE. Thromboprophylaxis with LMWH is well established in patients undergoing cancer surgery and hospitalized cancer patients, while outpatient prophylaxis remains contentious. LMWH are recommended over unfractionated heparins and vitamin K antagonists for initial treatment and secondary prophylaxis (3-6 months) after cancer-related VTE. Long-term secondary prophylaxis should be considered for patients with ongoing active malignancy and low bleeding risk. Due to absence of clinical studies in cancer patients, the use of novel oral anticoagulants is currently not recommended.

In 2009, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended biennial mammography screening for women aged 50 to 74 years and selective screening for those aged 40 to 49 years.

To review studies of screening in average-risk women with mammography, magnetic resonance imaging, or ultrasonography that reported on false-positive results, overdiagnosis, anxiety, pain, and radiation exposure.

MEDLINE and Cochrane databases through December 2014.

English-language systematic reviews, randomized trials, and observational studies of screening.

Investigators extracted and confirmed data from studies and dual-rated study quality. Discrepancies were resolved through consensus.

Based on 2 studies of U.S. data, 10-year cumulative rates of false-positive mammography results and biopsies were higher with annual than biennial screening (61% vs. 42% and 7% vs. 5%, respectively) and for women aged 40 to 49 years, those with dense breasts, and those using combination hormone therapy. Twenty-nine studies using different methods reported overdiagnosis rates of 0% to 54%; rates from randomized trials were 11% to 22%. Women with false-positive results reported more anxiety, distress, and breast cancer-specific worry, although results varied across 80 observational studies. Thirty-nine observational studies indicated that some women reported pain during mammography (1% to 77%); of these, 11% to 46% declined future screening. Models estimated 2 to 11 screening-related deaths from radiation-induced cancer per 100,000 women using digital mammography, depending on age and screening interval. Five observational studies of tomosynthesis and mammography indicated increased biopsies but reduced recalls compared with mammography alone.

Studies of overdiagnosis were highly heterogeneous, and estimates varied depending on the analytic approach. Studies of anxiety and pain used different outcome measures. Radiation exposure was based on models.

False-positive results are common and are higher for annual screening, younger women, and women with dense breasts. Although overdiagnosis, anxiety, pain, and radiation exposure may cause harm, their effects on individual women are difficult to estimate and vary widely.

Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.

Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 1 (IFITM1) is one of the interferon-induced transmembrane protein family members. In this study, we reported that the elevated IFITM1 expression in human colorectal cancer (CRC) significantly correlated with CRC lymph node and distance metastasis as well as a more advanced clinical stage. Importantly, elevated IFITM1 expression is an independent prognostic factor for poor survival. To investigate the molecular mechanisms, we showed that over-expression of IFITM1 in CRC cells promoted, whereas knockdown of IFITM1 expression inhibited, cell migration/invasion and tumorigenicity in vitro. Furthermore, we identified Caveolin-1 (CAV1) as a downstream target of IFITM1-induced cell invasion, as knockdown of CAV1 abrogated siIFITM1 mediated inhibition of cell invasion in CRC cells. In addition, in a CRC cohort of 229 patients, the expression of IFITM1 inversely correlated with the expression of CAV1. These results suggested that IFITM1 promotes the aggressiveness of CRC cells, and it is a potential prognostic marker and therapeutic target for CRC.

Recent trials have suggested that maintenance treatments improve outcomes for patients not progressing after first-line therapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, physicians have little guidance on selecting which patients benefit the most and what drug or regimen is optimal. Here, we report a systematic review and network meta-analysis of maintenance treatments in subgroups determined by performance status (PS), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, histology and response to induction.

PubMed and conference proceedings were reviewed and individual study relative efficacy measures were meta-analysed in a Bayesian hierarchical model. The primary outcome, overall survival (OS), was evaluated in terms of (i) posterior surface under cumulative ranking curve (SUCRA), (ii) probability of being best treatment, (iii) probability of outperforming no maintenance, and (iv) posterior median hazard ratio (95% credible interval). Secondary outcomes were progression-free survival (PFS) and adverse events.

Twelve trials evaluating eight maintenance treatments in 3850 patients were meta-analysed. Selected maintenance treatments showed clinically meaningful benefits of ⩾20% reduction in hazards of death with ⩾90% probability of outperforming no maintenance in terms of OS: (i) switch to or continue pemetrexed (nonsquamous), continue gemcitabine, or switch to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) for PS 0 patients, (ii) switch to pemetrexed (nonsquamous) for PS 1 patients, (iii) switch to EGFR TKI for EGFR mutation positive patients, (iv) switch to or continue pemetrexed or switch to EGFR TKI for nonsquamous patients, (v) continue gemcitabine for squamous patients, (vi) switch to docetaxel or continue gemcitabine for responders to induction, or (vii) switch to or continue pemetrexed (nonsquamous) or switch to EGFR TKI for patients with stable disease post-induction.

Maintenance treatments show clinically meaningful survival benefits in good performance status patients with advanced NSCLC not progressing after first-line chemotherapy. Benefits are optimised by targeting specific maintenance to individual patients guided by PS, EGFR mutation status, histology and response to induction.

Suicide rates are elevated in individuals with cancer, although suicidal intention is not typically assessed in cancer centers. We evaluated in a large comprehensive cancer center the utility of an electronic Distress Assessment and Response Tool (DART), in which suicidal intention is assessed with a single item.

Patients attending cancer clinics completed DART as part of routine care. DART includes measures of physical symptoms, depression, anxiety, social difficulties, and practical concerns. Medical variables were obtained from the Princess Margaret Cancer Registry, the data warehouse of cancer patient statistics. A Generalized Estimating Equation (GEE) model was used to assess factors associated with suicidal intention.

Between September 2009 and March 2012, 4822/5461 patients (88.3%) who completed DART consented to the use of their data for research. Amongst the latter, 280 (5.9%) of the 4775 patients who answered the question reported suicidal ideation, which was related to physical and psychological distress, and social difficulties (ps < 0.0001). Amongst those with ideation who responded to the intention question, 20/186 (10.8%) reported suicidal intention. Of respondents with more severe suicidal ideation, 12/49 (24.5%) reported suicidal intention. Using a GEE model, suicidal intention in those with ideation was significantly associated with male sex, difficulty making treatment decisions, and with everyday living concerns.

Suicidal ideation is reported on an electronic distress screening tool (DART) by almost 6% of cancer patients, of whom almost 11% report suicidal intention and 33% decline to indicate intention. DART demonstrated utility in identifying patients who may be at highest risk of completed suicide and who require urgent clinical assessment.

Defining multidisciplinary quality of care indicators (QCIs) for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) could improve understanding of variations in routine practice care. This may identify areas of below-average performance, which could then be addressed by clinicians to improve the quality of care delivered. This study aimed to define a panel of QCIs in mCRC and, based on these QCIs, to evaluate quality of care across multiple Australian sites.

A panel of clinicians with expertise in colorectal cancer defined evidence-based or best practice-based QCIs relevant to the routine multidisciplinary management of mCRC patients through structured consensus discussion. Related data were extracted from the Treatment of Recurrent and Advanced Colorectal Cancer (TRACC) registry, a prospectively maintained database recording comprehensive details on consecutive mCRC patients across multiple Australian hospitals. Variations in QCIs across sites were explored.

Of 13 QCIs defined, data related to 10 were reliably extracted from TRACC. Analysis of data on 1276 patients across 10 sites demonstrated low rates of screening for hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer in young patients and significant variation in surveillance-detected recurrences, lung resection rates and palliative chemotherapy use. Exploratory analyses suggested correlation between liver resection rates and survival.

We have defined a novel set of mCRC QCIs and have demonstrated wide variation in the quality of care of mCRC across multiple Australian sites. With further validation to confirm a direct correlation between QCI and patient outcomes, these QCIs could be applied to improve the quality of care received by all mCRC patients.

Based on an analysis of a large number of sources of literature, the paper gives general information on the markers for cancer stem cells (CSCs), which allow the detection of this rare cell subpopulation, on the possibilities of estimating their immunohistochemical or immunofluorescent expression in tumors, and on the prognostic and predictive values of these molecules. For their detection, investigators generally use definite molecules, the so-called markers of CSCs, among which there are CD44, CD133, CD24, aldehyde dehydrogenase, and others. The expression of these molecules in the tumor tissue obtained from patients affects survival rates and permits the prediction of a response to therapy. A better insight into the immunophenotype of CSCs, the role of CSC markers in retaining the special properties of this call population, and the clinical significance of the expression of CSC markers will be able to elaborate new approaches to therapy for malignancies.

Herein we report a convenient chemical approach to reversibly modulate protein (RNase A) function and develop a protein that is responsive to reactive oxygen species (ROS) for targeted cancer therapy. The conjugation of RNase A with 4-nitrophenyl 4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl) benzyl carbonate (NBC) blocks protein lysine and temporarily deactivates the protein. However, the treatment of RNase A-NBC with hydrogen peroxide (one major intracellular ROS) efficiently cleaves the NBC conjugation and restores the RNase A activity. Thus, RNase A-NBC can be reactivated inside tumor cells by high levels of intracellular ROS, thereby restoring the cytotoxicity of RNase A for cancer therapy. Due to higher ROS levels inside tumor cells compared to healthy cells, and the resulting different levels of RNase A-NBC reactivation, RNase A-NBC shows a significant specific cytotoxicity against tumor cells.

The members of the metastasis-associated protein (MTA) family play pivotal roles in both physiological and pathophysiological processes, especially in cancer development and metastasis, and their role as master regulators has come to light. Due to the fact that they were first identified as crucial factors in estrogen receptor-mediated breast cancer metastasis, most of the early studies focused on their hormone-dependent functions. However, the accumulating evidence shows that the members of MTA family are deregulated in most, if not all, the cancers studied so far. Therefore, the levels as well as the activities of the MTA family members are widely accepted as potential biomarkers for diagnosis, prognosis, and predictors of overall survival. They function differently in different cancers with specific mechanisms. p53 and HIF-1α appear to be the respectively common upstream and downstream regulator of the MTA family in both development and metastasis of a wide spectrum of cancers. Here, we review the expression and clinical significance of the MTA family, focusing on hormone-independent cancers. To illustrate the molecular mechanisms, we analyze the MTA family-related signaling pathways in different cancers. Finally, targeting the MTA family directly or the pathways involved in the MTA family indirectly could be invaluable strategies in the development of cancer therapeutics.

We investigated the significance of pre-treatment screening by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron-emission tomography (FDG-PET) in patients with esophageal cancer.

We retrospectively evaluated the clinical significance of screening in 200 patients with primary esophageal cancer using FDG-PET.

Out of 200 patients, 34 (17%) had synchronous multiple primary tumors; 31 patients had two types of cancers (15.5%) and three patients had three types (1.5%). The 37 second and third primary tumors were 13 stomach cancers (35.1%), 13 head and neck cancers (35.1%), seven colon (18.9%) and two lung (5.4%) cancers. When PET was performed at initial treatment for esophageal cancer, the diagnostic sensitivity of FDG-PET/Computed tomography (CT) for the second and third synchronous primary cancer were 53.8% (7/13) for the stomach; head and neck, 61.5% (8/13); colon, 42.9% (3/7); and lung, 50% (1/2), for an overall sensitivity of 54.1% (20/37 sites).

FDG-PET/CT for patients with esophageal cancer may find both metastases from the primary esophageal cancer and other types of synchronous primary cancers.

Cancer is one of the most common causes of death in Turkey. Nurses are essential providers of preventive care for patients, especially breast, cervical and colorectal cancer screening as part of routine preventive practice. The aim of this study was to assess knowledge of these cancers among nurses in Karabuk State Hospital.

This cross-sectional and descriptive study was performed from April 1 to July 30, 2013. The study sample consisted of 226 nurses working in Karabuk State Hospital.

Mean age of the nurses was 32.07 ± 8.39. 62.4% of nurses practiced breast self examination when they remembered it, while 39.8% of them did not take a Pap smear test since they did not think it was necessary. 64.2% of nurses would like to receive information about cancer and screening tests. Majority of them had given true answers to questions on breast, cervical and colorectal cancer. There were significant relationships between cancer knowledge scores and marital status, working experience, and level of education.

Nurses possess adequate knowledge about breast cancer but they need more information on cancer risk estimation. Awareness may be raised in nurses by establishing continuing education programs regarding the risk factors, symptoms, protection methods, early diagnosis, and scanning of breast, cervix and colon cancers.

Thyroid cancer incidence has increased significantly over the past three decades due, in part, to incidental detection. We examined the association between randomization to screening for lung, prostate, colorectal and/or ovarian cancers and thyroid cancer incidence in two large prospective randomized screening trials.

We assessed the association between randomization to low-dose helical CT scan versus chest x-ray for lung cancer screening and risk of thyroid cancer in the National Lung Screening Trial (NLST). In the Prostate Lung Colorectal and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial (PLCO), we assessed the association between randomization to regular screening for said cancers versus usual medical care and thyroid cancer risk. Over a median 6 and 11 years of follow-up in NLST and PLCO, respectively, we identified 60 incident and 234 incident thyroid cancer cases. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to calculate the cause specific hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for thyroid cancer.

In NLST, randomization to lung CT scan was associated with a non-significant increase in thyroid cancer risk (HR = 1.61; 95% CI: 0.96-2.71). This association was stronger during the first 3 years of follow-up, during which participants were actively screened (HR = 2.19; 95% CI: 1.07-4.47), but not subsequently (HR = 1.08; 95% CI: 0.49-2.37). In PLCO, randomization to cancer screening compared with usual care was associated with a significant decrease in thyroid cancer risk for men (HR = 0.61; 95% CI: 0.49-0.95) but not women (HR = 0.91; 95% CI: 0.66-1.26). Similar results were observed when restricting to papillary thyroid cancer in both NLST and PLCO.

Our study suggests that certain medical encounters, such as those using low-dose helical CT scan for lung cancer screening, may increase the detection of incidental thyroid cancer.

Transcriptional profiling of epithelial ovarian cancer has revealed molecular subtypes correlating to biological and clinical features. We aimed to determine gene expression differences between malignant, benign and borderline serous ovarian tumors, and investigate similarities with the well-established intrinsic molecular subtypes of breast cancer.

Global gene expression profiling using Illumina's HT12 Bead Arrays was applied to 59 fresh-frozen serous ovarian malignant, benign and borderline tumors. Nearest centroid classification was performed applying previously published gene profiles for the ovarian and breast cancer subtypes. Correlations to gene expression modules representing key biological breast cancer features were also sought. Validation was performed using an independent, publicly available dataset.

5,944 genes were significantly differentially expressed between benign and malignant serous ovarian tumors, with cell cycle processes enriched in the malignant subgroup. Borderline tumors were split between the two clusters. Significant correlations between the malignant serous tumors and the highly aggressive ovarian cancer signatures, and the basal-like breast cancer subtype were found. The benign and borderline serous tumors together were significantly correlated to the normal-like breast cancer subtype and the ovarian cancer signature derived from borderline tumors. The borderline tumors in the study dataset, in addition, also correlated significantly to the luminal A breast cancer subtype. These findings remained when analyzed in an independent dataset, supporting links between the molecular subtypes of ovarian cancer and breast cancer beyond those recently acknowledged.

These data link the transcriptional profiles of serous ovarian cancer to the intrinsic molecular subtypes of breast cancer, in line with the shared clinical and molecular features between high-grade serous ovarian cancer and basal-like breast cancer, and suggest that biomarkers and targeted therapies may overlap between these tumor subsets. The link between benign and borderline ovarian cancer and luminal breast cancer may indicate endocrine responsiveness in a subset of ovarian cancers.

To determine survival times of cervical cancer patients with bone metastasis related to the effect of age at the time of cervical cancer diagnosis, we performed the retrospectively analytical study.

A total of 68 cervical cancer patients with bone metastasis were treated at a single hospital, during January 1998 to December 2010. Fifty-two medical records were identified and collected, the remaining sixteen medical records were not found. Main outcome measures were patient characteristics, clinical information, duration from cervical cancer diagnosis to bone metastasis diagnosis, survival time after bone metastasis and overall survival time.

Among fifty-two cervical cancer patients with bone metastasis, there were 13 patients who were less than 45 years old, and 39 patients were 45 years old or more at the time of cervical cancer diagnosis. The younger group had less median overall survival than the older group, with a statistically significant difference (21 months, 95% CI 19.93-22.06; 34 months, 95% CI 23.27-44.72, p = 0.021). However, they were comparable in the duration from cervical cancer diagnosis to bone metastasis diagnosis and the survival time after bone metastasis.

Young patients with bone metastasis aged less than 45 years old at the time of cervical cancer diagnosis have a poorer prognosis than the elderly patients.

To improve survival and quality of life, more intensive and novel multimodal treatments at the time of cervical cancer diagnosis should be considered in patients less than forty-five years, who can tolerate the side effects better.

According to the China tumor registry 2013 annual report , breast cancer, lung cancer, and ovarian cancer are three common cancers in China nowadays, with high mortality due to the absence of early diagnosis technology. However, proteomics has been widespreadly implanted into every field of life science and medicine as an important part of post-genomics era research. The development of theory and technology in proteomics has provided new ideas and research fields for cancer research. Proteomics can be used not only for elucidating the mechanisms of carcinogenesis focussing on whole proteins of the tissue or cell, but also seeking the biomarkers for diagnosis and therapy of cancer. In this review, we introduce proteomics principles, covering current technology used in exploring early diagnosis biomarkers of breast cancer, lung cancer and ovarian cancer.

The aim of the study is to assess the efficacy of the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (LNG-IUS) on the tamoxifen-induced endometrial lesions in breast cancer patients.

PubMed and EMBASE databases were searched for eligible studies. Odds ratios were obtained to estimate the association between the LNG-IUS and tamoxifen-induced endometrial lesions. The fixed effects or random-effects model was used to combine data depending on heterogeneity.

With three eligible randomized clinical trials involving 359 patients, this analysis demonstrated tamoxifen-treated breast cancer patients using the LNG-IUS derived benefit from de novo polyps prevention (P < 0.0001, OR 0.18, 95% CI: 0.08-0.42). However, the LNG-IUS only showed a trend of maintaining endometrial proliferation or secretory status (P = 0.05, OR 0.36, 95% CI 0.13-1.02) and no statistical difference in atrophic or inactive changes (P = 0.13, OR 0.24, 95% CI 0.04-1.53) or endometrial hyperplasia without atypia (P = 0.08, OR 0.20, 95% CI 0.04-1.18). The LNG-IUS didn't have an increased incidence in breast cancer recurrence (P = 0.28, OR 1.75, 95% CI: 0.64-4.80) and cancer-induced death (P = 0.71, OR 1.22, 95% CI: 0.42-3.52). Bleeding in the treatment group was statistically more frequent than that in the control group (OR 6.20, 95% CI: 2.99-12.85, P < 0.00001).

This analysis verifies the efficacy of the LNG-IUS in preventing tamoxifen-induced polyps. The LNG-IUS didn't have an increased incidence in breast cancer recurrence and cancer-induced death. Long-term, large randomized studies of the LNG-IUS will be necessary to determine the benefit and risk in tamoxifen-treated breast cancer patients.

To identify patients with endometrial cancer with potential Lynch-related DNA mismatch repair (MMR) protein expression defects and to explore the role of these defects in screening for LS.

Endometrial cancers from 173 patients recruited to the Nanchong Central Hospital were tested for MMR (MLH1, MSH2, PMS2, and MSH6) protein expression using immunohistochemistry (IHC).

In the 173 tumor tissue samples, the expression loss rates of MSH6, MSH2, PMS2 and MLH1 protein were 16.18% (28/173), 12.14% (21/173), 7.51% (13/173) and 5.78% (10/173), respectively. The total loss rate of MMR protein was 29.89% (27/87). There were 19 patients with a family history of cancer, of which 18 patients demonstrated loss of expression of MMR protein. In the 22 abnormal MMR patients without family history, five families were found to have Lynch-associated cancer (colorectal cancer, endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer, stomach cancer) after follow-up for two years.

MMR proteins play an important role in the progress of endometrial cancer. The routine testing of MMR proteins in endometrial cancer can contribute to the screening of LS families, especially small families.

To determine the time to bladder cancer diagnosis from initial infection-like symptoms and its impact on cancer outcomes.

Using Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results-Medicare, we designed a retrospective cohort study identifying beneficiaries aged ≥ 66 years diagnosed with bladder cancer from 2007 to 2009. Patients were required to have a hematuria or urinary tract infection claim within 1 year of bladder cancer diagnosis (n = 21 216), and have 2 years of prior Medicare data (n = 18 956) without any precedent hematuria, bladder cancer or urinary tract infection claims (n = 12 195). The number of days to bladder cancer diagnosis was measured, as well as the impact of sex and presenting symptom on time to diagnosis, pathology, and oncological outcomes.

The mean time to bladder cancer diagnosis was 72.2 days in women versus 58.9 days in men (P < 0.001). A logistic regression model identified the greatest predictors of ≥ pT2 pathology were both women (odds ratio 2.08, 95% confidence interval 1.70-2.55) and men (odds ratio 1.71, 95% confidence interval 1.49-1.97) presenting with urinary tract infection. Cox proportional hazards analysis identified an increased risk of mortality from bladder cancer and all causes in women presenting with urinary tract infection (hazard ratio 1.37, 95% confidence interval 1.10-1.71, and hazard ratio 1.47, 95% confidence interval 1.28-1.69) compared with women with hematuria.

Women have a longer interval from urinary tract infection to diagnosis of bladder cancer. Urinary tract infection presentation can adversely affect time to diagnosis, pathology and survival. Time to diagnosis seems not to be an independent predictor of bladder cancer outcomes.

The aim of this study is to describe the clinical characteristics and outcome of cancer diagnosed during pregnancy.

This is a retrospective cohort study of women who were diagnosed with cancer during pregnancy at a tertiary academic hospital between 1995 and 2013. Maternal characteristics, gestational age at diagnosis, and type, stage, symptoms and signs of cancer for each patient were retrieved from the medical records. The cancer treatment, pregnancy management and the subsequent perinatal and maternal outcomes for each cancer were assessed.

A total of 87 women were diagnosed with cancer during pregnancy (172.6 cases per 100,000 deliveries). The most common cancer was breast cancer (n=20), followed by gastrointestinal (n=17), hematologic (n=13), thyroid (n=11), central nervous system (n=7), cervical (n=7), ovarian (n=5), lung (n=3), and other cancers (n=4). Eighteen (20.7%) patients terminated their pregnancies. In the 69 (79.3%) patients who maintained their pregnancies, one patient miscarried and 34 patients delivered preterm. Of the preterm babies, 24 (70.6%) were admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit and 3 (8.8%) of those expired. The maternal mortality rate was 31.0%, with highest rate seen with lung cancers (66.7%), followed by gastrointestinal (50.0%), central nervous system (50.0%), hematologic (30.8%), breast (25.0%), ovarian (20.0%) cervical (14.3%), and thyroid cancers (0%).

The clinical characteristics and outcome of cancer during pregnancy were highly variable depending on the type of cancer. However, timely diagnosis and appropriate management of cancer during pregnancy may improve both maternal and neonatal outcome.

There is increasing focus on providing high quality care for people at the end of life, irrespective of disease or cause, and in all settings. In the last ten years the use of care pathways to aid those treating patients at the end of life has become common worldwide. The use of the Liverpool Care Pathway in the UK has been criticised. In England the LCP was the subject of an independent review, commissioned by a Health Minister. The Neuberger Review acknowledged that the LCP was based on the sound ethical principles that provide the basis of good quality care for patients and families when implemented properly. It also found that the LCP often was not implemented properly, and had instead become a barrier to good care; it made over 40 recommendations, including education and training, research and development, access to specialist palliative care services, and the need to ensure care and compassion for all dying patients. In July 2013, the Department of Health released a statement that stated the use of the LCP should be "phased out over the next 6-12 months and replaced with an individual approach to end of life care for each patient".The impact of opioids was a particular concern because of their potential influence on consciousness, appetite and thirst in people near the end of life. There was concern that impaired patient consciousness may lead to an earlier death, and that effects of opioids on appetite and thirst may result in unnecessary suffering. This rapid review, commissioned by the National Institute for Health Research, used standard Cochrane methodology to examine adverse effects of morphine, fentanyl, oxycodone, and codeine in cancer pain studies as a close approximation to possible effects in the dying patient.

To determine the impact of opioid treatment on patient consciousness, appetite and thirst in randomised controlled trials of morphine, fentanyl, oxycodone or codeine for treating cancer pain.

We assessed adverse event data reported in studies included in current Cochrane reviews of opioids for cancer pain: specifically morphine, fentanyl, oxycodone, and codeine.

We included randomised studies using multiple doses of four opioid drugs (morphine, fentanyl, oxycodone, and codeine) in cancer pain. These were taken from four existing or ongoing Cochrane reviews. Participants were adults aged 18 and over. We included only full journal publication articles.

Two review authors independently extracted adverse event data, and examined issues of study quality. The primary outcomes sought were numbers of participants experiencing adverse events of reduced consciousness, appetite, and thirst. Secondary outcomes were possible surrogate measures of the primary outcomes: delirium, dizziness, hallucinations, mood change and somnolence relating to patient consciousness, and nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, anorexia, asthenia, dehydration, or dry mouth relating to appetite or thirst.Comparative measures of harm were known to be unlikely, and we therefore calculated the proportion of participants experiencing each of the adverse events of interest with each opioid, and for all four opioid drugs combined.

We included 77 studies with 5619 randomised participants. There was potential bias in most studies, with small size being the most common; individual treatment groups had fewer than 50 participants in 60 studies. Participants were relatively young, with mean age in the studies typically between 50 and 70 years. Multiple major problems with adverse event reporting were found, including failing to report adverse events in all participants who received medication, all adverse events experienced, how adverse events were collected, and not defining adverse event terminology or whether a reporting system was used.Direct measures of patient consciousness, patient appetite, or thirst were not apparent. For opioids used to treat cancer pain adverse event incidence rates were 25% for constipation, 23% for somnolence, 21% for nausea, 17% for dry mouth, and 13% for vomiting, anorexia, and dizziness. Asthenia, diarrhoea, insomnia, mood change, hallucinations and dehydration occurred at incidence rates of 5% and below.

We found no direct evidence that opioids affected patient consciousness, appetite or thirst when used to treat cancer pain. However, somnolence, dry mouth, and anorexia were common adverse events in people with cancer pain treated with morphine, fentanyl, oxycodone, or codeine.We are aware that there is an important literature concerning the problems that exist with adverse event measurement, reporting, and attribution. Together with the known complications concerning concomitant medication, data collection and reporting, and nomenclature, this means that these adverse events cannot always be attributed unequivocally to the use of opioids, and so they provide only a broad picture of adverse events with opioids in cancer pain. The research agenda includes developing definitions for adverse events that have a spectrum of severity or importance, and the development of appropriate measurement tools for recording such events to aid clinical practice and clinical research.

Tumors are influenced by a microenvironment rich in inflammatory cytokines, growth factors and chemokines, which may promote tumor growth. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a multifunctional cytokine and known as a regulator of immune and inflammation responses. IL-6 has also been reported to be associated with tumor progression and chemoresistance in different types of cancers. In our study, we demonstrated that IL-6 enriches the properties of lung cancer stem-like cells in A549 lung cancer cells cultured in spheroid medium. IL-6 also promotes sphere formation and stem-like properties of A549 cells by enhancing cell proliferation. Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed and revealed that IL-6 increased methylation of p53 and p21 in A549 cancer cells. Western blot analysis and quantitative real-time PCR demonstrated that IL-6 increased the expression of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) in A549 cells cultured in spheroid medium, but not the expression of DNMT3a or DNMT3b. Knockdown of DNMT1 eliminated IL-6-mediated hypermethylation of cell cycle regulators and enrichment of lung cancer stem-like properties. In conclusion, our study, for the first time, shows that the IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 pathway upregulates DNMT1 and enhances cancer initiation and lung cancer stem cell (CSC) proliferation by downregulation of p53 and p21 resulting from DNA hypermethylation. Upon blockage of the IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 pathway and inhibition of DNMT1, the proliferation of lung CSCs was reduced and their formation of spheres and ability to initiate tumor growth were decreased. These data suggest that targeting of the IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway and DNMT1 may become important strategies for treating lung cancer.

To investigate the association between cannabis smoking and lung cancer risk, data on 2,159 lung cancer cases and 2,985 controls were pooled from 6 case-control studies in the US, Canada, UK, and New Zealand within the International Lung Cancer Consortium. Study-specific associations between cannabis smoking and lung cancer were estimated using unconditional logistic regression adjusting for sociodemographic factors, tobacco smoking status and pack-years; odds-ratio estimates were pooled using random effects models. Subgroup analyses were done for sex, histology and tobacco smoking status. The shapes of dose-response associations were examined using restricted cubic spline regression. The overall pooled OR for habitual versus nonhabitual or never users was 0.96 (95% CI: 0.66-1.38). Compared to nonhabitual or never users, the summary OR was 0.88 (95%CI: 0.63-1.24) for individuals who smoked 1 or more joint-equivalents of cannabis per day and 0.94 (95%CI: 0.67-1.32) for those consumed at least 10 joint-years. For adenocarcinoma cases the ORs were 1.73 (95%CI: 0.75-4.00) and 1.74 (95%CI: 0.85-3.55), respectively. However, no association was found for the squamous cell carcinoma based on small numbers. Weak associations between cannabis smoking and lung cancer were observed in never tobacco smokers. Spline modeling indicated a weak positive monotonic association between cumulative cannabis use and lung cancer, but precision was low at high exposure levels. Results from our pooled analyses provide little evidence for an increased risk of lung cancer among habitual or long-term cannabis smokers, although the possibility of potential adverse effect for heavy consumption cannot be excluded.

We sought to describe the presentation of external head and neck lymphedema in patients treated for head and neck cancer and to examine their initial responses to complete decongestive therapy.

Case series with chart review.

MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

The charts of patients who were evaluated for head and neck cancer at MD Anderson Cancer Center after treatment (January 2007-January 2013) were retrospectively reviewed. Response to complete decongestive therapy was evaluated per changes in lymphedema severity rating or surface tape measures. Predictors of therapy response were examined on the basis of regression models.

The cases of 1202 patients were evaluated. Most patients (62%) had soft reversible pitting edema (MD Anderson Cancer Center stage 1b). Treatment response was evaluated for 733 patients; 439 (60%) improved after complete decongestive therapy. Treatment adherence independently predicted complete decongestive therapy response (P < .001).

These data support the effectiveness of a head and neck cancer-specific regimen of lymphedema therapy for cancer patients with external head and neck lymphedema. Our findings suggest that head and neck lymphedema is distinct from lymphedema that affects other sites, thus requiring adaptations in traditional methods of management and measurement.

Breast cancer tissue contains a small population of cells that have the ability to self-renew, these cells are known as breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs). The Hedgehog signal transduction pathway plays a central role in stem cell development, its aberrant activation has been shown to contribute to the development of breast cancer, making this pathway an attractive therapeutic target. Salinomycin (Sal) is a novel identified cancer stem cells (CSCs) killer, however, the molecular basis for its anticancer effects is not yet clear. In the current study, Sal's ability to modulate the activity of key elements in the Hedgehog pathway was examined in the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, as well as in a subpopulation of cancer stem cells identified within this cancer cell line. We show here that Sal inhibits proliferation, invasion, and migration while also inducing apoptosis in MCF-7 cells. Interestingly, in a subpopulation of MCF-7 cells with the CD44(+)/CD24(-) markers and high ALDH1 levels indicative of BCSCs, modulators of Hedgehog signaling Smo and Gli1 were significantly down-regulated upon treatment with Sal. These results demonstrate that Sal also inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of BCSCs, further establishing it as therapeutically relevant in the context of breast cancers and also indicating that modulation of Hedgehog signaling is one potential mechanism by which it exerts these anticancer effects.

Fungal infections of the central nervous system (CNS) are associated with high mortality rates in immunocompromised patients. Surgical intervention is a mainstay of therapy, but not always possible. We describe the use of medical therapy for the treatment of CNS fungal infections in four pediatric cancer patients. Definitive resection was not performed in any patient. All patients initially received combination antifungal therapy with good clinical response; long-term survival was documented in two patients able to transition to long-term azole therapy. Prolonged antifungal therapy is an important option for treating invasive CNS fungal infections when surgery is not feasible.

The authors analyzed a preliminary report of patient-reported outcomes (PROs) among men who received high-dose radiation therapy (RT) on Radiation Therapy Oncology Group study 0126 (a phase 3 dose-escalation trial) with either 3-dimensional conformal RT (3D-CRT) or intensity-modulated RT (IMRT).

Patients in the 3D-CRT group received 55.8 gray (Gy) to the prostate and proximal seminal vesicles and were allowed an optional field reduction; then, they received 23.4 Gy to the prostate only. Patients in the IMRT group received 79.2 Gy to the prostate and proximal seminal vesicles. PROs were assessed at 0 months (baseline), 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months and included bladder and bowel function assessed with the Functional Alterations due to Changes in Elimination (FACE) instrument and erectile function assessed with the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). Analyses included the patients who completed all data at baseline and for at least 1 follow-up assessment, and the results were compared with an imputed data set.

Of 763 patients who were randomized to the 79.2-Gy arm, 551 patients and 595 patients who responded to the FACE instrument and 505 patients and 577 patients who responded to the IIEF were included in the completed and imputed analyses, respectively. There were no significant differences between modalities for any of the FACE or IIEF subscale scores or total scores at any time point for either the completed data set or the imputed data set.

Despite significant reductions in dose and volume to normal structures using IMRT, this robust analysis of 3D-CRT and IMRT demonstrated no difference in patient-reported bowel, bladder, or sexual functions for similar doses delivered to the prostate and proximal seminal vesicles with IMRT compared with 3D-CRT delivered either to the prostate and proximal seminal vesicles or to the prostate alone.

Although chemotherapy is an important therapeutic strategy for gastrointestinal cancer, its clinical effect remains unsatisfied due to drug resistance. Drug resistance is a complex multistep process resulting from deregulated expression of many molecules, including tumor suppressor genes, oncogenes and microRNAs (miRNAs). A better understanding of drug resistance-related miRNAs may eventually lead to optimized therapeutic strategies for cancer patients.

This review summarizes the recent advances of drug resistance-related miRNAs in esophageal, gastric and colorectal cancer. Furthermore, this study envisages future developments toward the clinical applications of these miRNAs to cancer therapy.

Drug resistance-related miRNAs may be potentially predicting biomarkers that help guide individualized chemotherapy. Specific miRNAs and their target genes can be used as therapeutic targets by reversing drug resistance. More investigations should be performed to promote the translational bridging of the latest research into clinical application.

Potent RNase activities were found in the serum of mammals but the physiological function of the RNases was never well illustrated, largely due to the caveats in methods of RNase activity measurement. None of the existing methods can distinguish between RNases with different target specificities. A systematic study was recently carried out in our lab to investigate the site-specificity of serum RNases on double-stranded RNA substrates, and found that serum RNases cleave double-stranded RNAs predominantly at 5'-U/A-3' and 5'-C/A-3' dinucleotide sites, in a manner closely resembling RNase A. Based on this finding, a FRET assay was developed in the current study to measure this site-specific serum RNase activity in human samples using a double stranded RNA substrate. We demonstrated that the method has a dynamic range of 10(-5) mg/ml- 10(-1) mg/ml using serial dilution of RNase A. The sera of 303 cancer patients were subjected to comparison with 128 healthy controls, and it was found that serum RNase activities visualized with this site-specific double stranded probe were found to be significantly reduced in patients with gastric cancer, liver cancer, pancreatic cancer, esophageal cancer, ovary cancer, cervical cancer, bladder cancer, kidney cancer and lung cancer, while only minor changes were found in breast and colon cancer patients. This is the first report using double stranded RNA as probe to quantify site-specific activities of RNase A in a serum. The results illustrated that RNase A might be further evaluated to determine if it can serve as a new class of biomarkers for certain cancer types.

The secretome includes all macromolecules secreted by cells, in particular conditions at defined times, allowing cell-cell communication. Cancer cell secretomes that are altered compared to normal cells have shown significant potential for elucidating cancer biology. Proteins of secretomes are secreted by various secretory pathways and can be studied using different methods. Cancer secretomes seem to play an important role in known hallmarks of cancers such as excessive proliferation, reduced apoptosis, immune invasion, angioneogenesis, alteration in energy metabolism, and development of resistance against anti-cancer therapy [1, 2]. If a significant role of an altered secretome can be identified in cancer cells, using advanced mass spectrometry-based techniques, this may allow researchers to screen and characterize the secretome proteins involved in cancer progression and open up new opportunities to develop new therapies. We aim to elaborate upon recent advances in cancer cell secretome analysis using different proteomics techniques. In this review, we highlight the role of the altered secretome in contributing to already recognized and emerging hallmarks of cancer and we discuss new challenges in the field of secretome analysis.

Patients with cancer consistently report conflict and anxiety when making decisions about complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) treatment. To design evidence-informed decision-support strategies, a better understanding is needed of how the decision-making process unfolds for these patients during their experience with cancer. We undertook this study to review the research literature regarding CAM-related decision-making by patients with cancer within the context of treatment, survivorship, and palliation. We also aimed to summarize emergent concepts within a preliminary conceptual framework.

We conducted an integrative literature review, searching 12 electronic databases for articles published in English that described studies of the process, context, or outcomes of CAM-related decision-making. We summarized descriptive data using frequencies and used a descriptive constant comparative method to analyze statements about original qualitative results, with the goal of identifying distinct concepts pertaining to CAM-related decision-making by patients with cancer and the relationships among these concepts.

Of 425 articles initially identified, 35 met our inclusion criteria. Seven unique concepts related to CAM and cancer decision-making emerged: decision-making phases, information-seeking and evaluation, decision-making roles, beliefs, contextual factors, decision-making outcomes, and the relationship between CAM and conventional medical decision-making. CAM decision-making begins with the diagnosis of cancer and encompasses 3 distinct phases (early, mid, and late), each marked by unique aims for CAM treatment and distinct patterns of information-seeking and evaluation. Phase transitions correspond to changes in health status or other milestones within the cancer trajectory. An emergent conceptual framework illustrating relationships among the 7 central concepts is presented.

CAM-related decision-making by patients with cancer occurs as a nonlinear, complex, dynamic process. The conceptual framework presented here identifies influential factors within that process, as well as patients' unique needs during different phases. The framework can guide the development and evaluation of theory-based decision-support programs that are responsive to patients' beliefs and preferences.

Polymorphisms in the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene may influence the risk of cancer, but the results are still debatable. Therefore, we performed a systematic review to provide a more complete picture and conducted a meta-analysis to derive a precise estimation. We searched PubMed, EMBASE, EBSCO, Google Scholar and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) databases until April 2014 to identify eligible studies. Thirty-one studies with cancer patients and controls were included in the meta-analysis. Overall, the polled analysis revealed that the T-786C polymorphism was significantly associated with increased cancer risk under multiple genetic models (C vs T: OR=1.135, 95%CI=1.048-1.228; CC vs TT: OR=1.278, 95%CI=1.045- 1.562; TC vs TT: OR=1.136, 95%CI=1.023-1.261; CC+TC vs TT: OR=1.159, 95%CI=1.047-1.281; CC vs TC+TT: OR=1.204, 95%CI= 1.003-1.447). G894T was associated with significant risk for females (TT vs GG: OR=1.414, 95%CI=1.056-1.892; TT vs GT+GG: OR=1.356, 95%CI=1.108-1.661) and for breast cancer (T vs G: OR=1.097, 95%CI=1.001-1.203; TT vs GG: OR=1.346, 95%CI=1.012-1.789; TT vs GT+GG: OR=1.269, 95%CI=1.028-1.566). Increased susceptibility was revealed for prostate cancer with 4a/b (ba vs bb: OR=1.338, 95%CI=1.013-1.768; aa+ba vs bb: OR=1.474, 95%CI=1.002-2.170). This meta-analysis indicated that the eNOS T-786C polymorphism is associated with elevated cancer risk; the G894T polymorphism contributes to susceptibility to breast cancer and cancer generally in females; and the 4a/b polymorphism may be associated with prostate cancer risk.

The 5-year survival rate of cancer patients is the most commonly used statistic to reflect improvements in the war against cancer. This idea, however, was refuted based on an analysis showing that changes in 5-year survival over time bear no relationship with changes in cancer mortality.

Here we show that progress in the fight against cancer can be evaluated by analyzing the association between 5-year survival rates and mortality rates normalized by the incidence (mortality over incidence, MOI). Changes in mortality rates are caused by improved clinical management as well as changing incidence rates, and since the latter can mask the effects of the former, it can also mask the correlation between survival and mortality rates. However, MOI is a more robust quantity and reflects improvements in cancer outcomes by overcoming the masking effect of changing incidence rates. Using population-based statistics for the US and the European Nordic countries, we determined the association of changes in 5-year survival rates and MOI.

We observed a strong correlation between changes in 5-year survival rates of cancer patients and changes in the MOI for all the countries tested. This finding demonstrates that there is no reason to assume that the improvements in 5-year survival rates are artificial. We obtained consistent results when examining the subset of cancer types whose incidence did not increase, suggesting that over-diagnosis does not obscure the results.

We have demonstrated, via the negative correlation between changes in 5-year survival rates and changes in MOI, that increases in 5-year survival rates reflect real improvements over time made in the clinical management of cancer. Furthermore, we found that increases in 5-year survival rates are not predominantly artificial byproducts of lead-time bias, as implied in the literature. The survival measure alone can therefore be used for a rough approximation of the amount of progress in the clinical management of cancer, but should ideally be used with other measures.

This study aimed to determine and compare the prevalences of diabetes awareness, treatment, and adequate glycemic control among cancer survivors in a Korean population and two non-cancer control groups, comprising individuals without a history of cancer but with other chronic diseases (non-cancer, chronic disease controls) and individuals without a history of cancer or any other chronic disease (non-cancer, non-chronic disease controls).

We analyzed data from 2,660 subjects with prevalent diabetes (aged ≥30 years), who had participated in the 2007-2011 Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Awareness was defined as a subject having been diagnosed with diabetes by a clinician. Treatment was defined as a subject who was taking anti-diabetic medicine. Adequate glycemic control was defined as a hemoglobin A1c level of <7%. Multivariable logistic regression and predictive margins were used to evaluate whether awareness, treatment, or adequate glycemic control differed among cancer survivors and the two non-cancer control groups.

Cancer survivors had greater awareness compared with the non-cancer, chronic disease and non-cancer, non-chronic disease control groups (85.1%, 80.4%, and 60.4%, respectively). Although the prevalences of treatment and adequate glycemic control were higher for survivors compared with the non-cancer, non-chronic disease controls, they were lower compared with the non-cancer, chronic disease controls. The prevalence of diabetes treatment was 67.5% for cancer survivors, 69.5% for non-cancer, chronic disease controls, and 46.7% for non-cancer, non-chronic disease controls; the prevalences of adequate glycemic control in these three groups were 31.7%, 34.6%, and 17.8%, respectively.

Cancer survivors were less likely than the non-cancer chronic disease subjects to receive diabetes management and to achieve adequate glycemic targets. Special attention and education are required to ensure that this population receives optimal diabetes care, and the systematic roles for primary care and specialist physicians need to be determined.

Previous studies concerning the role of CD86 polymorphisms (rs1129055 and rs17281995) in cancer fail to provide compelling evidence. The aim of this